[[Translation:en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on Windows using Microsoft Visual C++ 2012]]


A step by step guide for compile successfully OpenTTD in Visual Studio 2012. Note the  [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on Windows using Microsoft Visual C++ 2008∕2010|2008/2010 version]] of this document contains more information (such as creating a bundle) and is more verbose, hence if you get stuck it is recommended to look at that document as well.

== Before Start == 
I'm assuming that you have Microsoft Visual Studio installed and running.
=== Required software ===
*[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/aa904949 Microsoft® Windows® SDK]
*[http://www.openttd.org/en/download-openttd-useful openttd-useful-X.X-win.zip] -> Source files needed to compile.
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=118839 DMusic_for_OpenTTD.zip] -> Old DirectMusic includes.
*[http://tortoisesvn.net/ TortoiseSVN] A Windows program for get and update code from SVN repositories.


{{en/Note|This guide has been tested on Windows 8 64 bits, it should work on other Windows versions too, if you find any additional errors please let us know in the forum.}}

== Step 1 - Preparing the files == 

'''1.1''' Create your main <code>Work</code> folder (ie <code>C:\OpenTTD</code>)

'''1.2''' Create a subfolder called <code>trunk</code> inside the previously created folder.

'''1.3''' Select <code>trunk</code> folder and make a check-out with TortoiseSVN using svn://svn.openttd.org/trunk as URL (if you need help see [http://tortoisesvn.net/docs/release/TortoiseSVN_en/tsvn-dug-checkout.html svn checkout])

'''1.4''' Extract the previously downloaded file <code>openttd-useful-X.X-win.zip</code> inside our <code>Work</code> folder and a folder called <code>OpenTTD essentials</code> will be created.

'''1.5''' Extract the previously downloaded file <code>DMusic_for_OpenTTD.zip</code> inside <code>OpenTTD essentials</code> folder.

== Step 2 - Configure Visual Studio ==

'''2.1''' If you have Visual Studio running, close it first, then install <code>Microsoft Windows SDK</code>.

'''2.2''' Open Microsoft Visual Studio and go to <code>File -> Open Project</code>.

'''2.3''' Select the file <code>(WorkFolder)\trunk\projects\openttd_vs100.sln</code>.

'''2.4''' A popup will ask you to update the compiler settings, click <code>Update</code> button.

'''2.5''' Go to <code>Compile -> Configuration Administrator</code> and select <code>Configuration: Release</code>.

'''2.6''' Right click on the <code>openttd</code> project in <code>Solution Explorer</code> and select <code>Properties</code>.

'''2.7''' Select <code>Configuration: Release</code> at the top of the Property window.


{{en/Note|You can leave both settings as default in <code>Debug</code> if you want but you will need to repeat these steps when you change it later to Release.}}


'''2.8''' Navigate to <code>Configuration Properties -> VC++ Directories</code>.

'''2.9''' Select <code>Include files folder</code> and add <code>(WorkFolder)\OpenTTD essentials\shared\include;</code> to the list. 
'''DON'T forget the final semicolon(;) it's important'''.

'''2.10''' Select <code>Library files folder</code> and add <code>(WorkFolder)\OpenTTD essentials\win32\library;</code> to the list. Again 
'''DON'T forget the final semicolon(;) it's important''', change win32 to win64 if you want to compile a x64 build.


You can try now to build the solution.

Your final file will be in <code>(WorkFolder)\trunk\objs\Win32\Release\openttd.exe</code>

== Error troubleshooting== 

=== Fix Error LNK2001 unresolved external symbol ___iob_func openttd C:\OpenTTD\trunk\projects\libpng.lib(pngerror.obj) ===

You're probably using an outdated version of openttd-useful. You can find version 6.0 here: https://www.openttd.org/en/download-openttd-useful/6.0.

For more details, see the discussion here: https://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=73769.

=== Fix for Error C1083: Cannot open (include file/source file) 'X' No such file or directory === 

This usually happens when you try to compile only the <code>openttd</code> project, you must compile entire solution because some needed files are created by scripts "on the fly"

Solution: Select <code>Solution 'openttd_vs100'</code> in <code>Solution Explorer</code>, make right click with the mouse over it and click on <code>Compile Solution</code>.

=== Fix for Error C1189: "The C++ Standard Library forbids macroizing keywords. Enable warning C4005 to find the forbidden macro[...]"=== 

Open the project's Property Pages dialog box. (See step 2.6)

Navigate to <code>C/C++ -> Preprocessor</code>.

Select <code>Preprocessor Definitions</code> and add

<pre>_XKEYCHECK_H;</pre>

to the list.
'''DON'T forget the final ; it's important'''

=== Fix Error LNK2026: "Module unsafe for SAFESEH image[...]" === 

Open the project's <code>Property Pages</code> dialog box. (See step 2.6)

Click the <code>Linker</code> folder.

Click the <code>Advanced</code> property page.

Choose "No" under "Image Has Safe Exception Handlers".

More info: [http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/9a89h429(v=vs.110).aspx]

=== Fix Warning C4005: "'FACILITY_DIRECTMUSIC' : macro redefinition" === 

Open <code>openttd</code> tree in <code>Solution Explorer</code>, open <code>External Dependencies</code> and select <code>dmerror.h</code>

Change this at the start of the file (usually near line 12):

<pre>

#define FACILITY_DIRECTMUSIC      0x878       /* Shared with DirectSound */

</pre>

to

<pre>

#ifndef FACILITY_DIRECTMUSIC
	#define FACILITY_DIRECTMUSIC      0x878       /* Shared with DirectSound */
#endif

</pre>

[[Category:en/Development]]
[[Category:en/Development/Compiling OpenTTD]]
[[Category:en/Development/Microsoft Visual C++]]
[[Category:en/Archive/Program Descriptions]]