OpenTTD works on [http://www.haiku-os.org Haiku]. These instructions worked for OpenTTD 1.5.3 running Haiku nightly hrev49917.

== Using HaikuPorter ==

You may want to use [http://github.com/haikuports/haikuports HaikuPorter]. It will download and compile the lastest stable version and all its dependencies. Once you have HaikuPorter configured, just write:

<pre>haikuporter openttd</pre>

Note: If you run Haiku hybrid with GCC2 as the default architecture (the default download) you need to write.

<pre>haikuporter openttd_x86</pre>

== Getting the source ==

OpenTTD uses Subversion but also allows to download the source tree using Mercurial or Git. Here we're going to use Subversion.
First we need to install Subversion. Just check for Subversion in HaikuDepot or type

<pre>pkgman install subversion</pre>

Now we can start downloading the source tree.

<pre>mkdir openttd && cd openttd</pre>
<pre>svn checkout svn://svn.openttd.org</pre>

== Prerequisites ==

OpenTTD requires some libraries to be installed first. All of them can be installed from HaikuDepot or pkgman.

=== SDL ===

<pre>pkgman install devel:libsdl</pre>

Or if you use Haiku hybrid with GCC2 as the main architecture

<pre>pkgman install devel:libsdl_x86</pre>

=== zlib ===

<pre>pkgman install devel:libz</pre>

Or

<pre>pkgman install devel:libz_x86</pre>

=== lzo and lzma ===

<pre>pkgman install devel:liblzma devel:libzo2</pre>

Or

<pre>pkgman install devel:liblzma_x86 devel:libzo2_x86</pre>


=== MIDI SoundFont (optional) ===

If you want to hear music you'll need a MIDI soundfont. You can use TimGm soundfont.

<pre>pkgman install timgmsoundfont</pre>

== Compile ==

Now we're ready to compile OpenTTD. Go to the source tree and type

<pre>./configure</pre>
<pre>make</pre>

Now you may want to download and install [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]], [[en/Archive/Community/OpenMSX]] and [[en/Archive/Community/Sound Effects Replacement]].


[[Category:en/Development/Compiling OpenTTD]]