[[Translation:en/Archive/OpenTTD/Changes from TTD]]

=OpenTTD比运输大亨豪华版多了什么内容?=

OpenTTD 的制作参考了克里斯索耶所制作的运输大亨豪华版，并在它的基础上做出了巨大的提升. 除此之外，很多灵感也由[http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] 而来. 你可以从这里看到OpenTTD与TTDPatch之间的比较 [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Comparison of OpenTTD and TTDPatch features]].

==重要的改进==

* 多版本 - OpenTTD有Linux 版, Windows, Mac OS X, OS/2 等多个操作系统下的版本，目前甚至做了Android版.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Autorail|铁轨自动建造工具]] - 你可以在任何方向上拖动鼠标从而建造铁轨，电脑会帮你在所选定的方向上建造。
* 地图更大, 最大可达 4096x4096.
* 基于从谷歌地球上下载的地形高度数据制作出的高度图，提供了更为真实的场景。主页 http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=27052  以及最新的文档 http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=92633 .
* [[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles|运河/水闸]] - 允许玩家在陆地上建造运河，从而使船舶在其上航行。
* 车站更大 - 车站可以制作的更长，并能容纳更多的月台.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Nonuniform stations|站台分离]] - 同一个站点的不同站台之间可以有短距离间隔。
* Ability to [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Join train stations|join stations]] (of same width or length) - Building a station next to another station of the same type, width and lengths creates a single longer station.
* [[en/Manual/Waypoints]] - A special piece of track which can be placed on branching routes to force a train to use a particular branch to reach its destination.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Mammoth trains|Mammoth trains]] - Trains can be much longer.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Multiheaded trains|Multi-headed trains]] - Trains can have more than one engine to help increase the speed when carrying heavy loads, power up hills etc.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build on slopes|Build on slopes]] and coasts - It's possible to build on the slopes of the coastline or hills; the relevant tile is filled to a flat height for a certain cost.
* Goto depot order - Allows insertion of an order instructing a vehicle to return to the depot.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Longer bridges|Longer bridges]] - Bridges can span greater distances... at a price.
* Higher bridges - Bridges can span over greater heights enabling more complex networks.
* Three new [[en/Manual/Bridges|bridges]] - To enable greater use of the higher speed trains.
* [[en/Manual/Signals#presignals|Presignals]] (CTRL-click on existing signals) - As [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] - special signals to aid building complex track layouts (usually used when there are many platforms connected to a single train line).
* [[en/Manual/Signals#semaphores|Semaphores]] (CTRL-D to place them) - As [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch].
* [[en/Manual/Orders#shared-orders|Order sharing]] and [[en/Manual/Orders#copy-orders|copying]] ("goto" on other vehicle to copy, ctrl+"goto" to share) - Vehicles can now share orders with order changes propagating to all vehicles, and orders can just be copied by clicking on any other vehicle to save time.
* [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDpatch]-compatible Non-stop handling - Exactly as it says on the tin.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Crossing tunnels|Crossing tunnels]] - Tunnels may now cross over each other underground.
* Build many trees on one tile.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|Bribe the town authority]] - If your townsmen hate you, you can bribe the local authority to help you but it's expensive and runs the risk of you being caught.
* Much improved [[en/Manual/Multiplayer|networking and internet play]] by TCP/IP, including server lists, kick/ban, dedicated server, cheat protection and chat.
* [[en/Development/Script/Main Page|AI framework]] allowing for new, user made AIs. The old (cheating) AI was removed.
* Several new types of airport ([[en/Manual/Airports#metropolitan-airport|metropolitan]] in 1980, [[en/Manual/Airports#international-airport|international]] in 1990 and [[en/Manual/Airports#intercontinental-airport|intercontinental]] in 2002).
* [[en/Manual/Drive-through Road Stops]] - New kind of station for road vehicles. Much like a traditional real-life "bus stop", these new stations allow road vehicles to load/unload passengers and cargo simply by stopping by the side of the road.
* [[en/Manual/Tramways]] - New kind of road vehicles (like bus) and require special tracks, stops and depots for them.

==Better usability==

* [[en/Manual/Convert rail|Convert rail]] tool (to rail, monorail, maglev) - To enable you to easily switch your tracks to the latest technology.
* Build stations with drag & drop - Rather than guess at the size or count the tiles, just drag and drop the station over the desired area and it is built for you.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build in pause|Build while paused]] - An optional patch that allows building while the game is paused.
* Mouse wheel can be used to scroll in menus and to zoom in/out.
* Autoscroll (to left/right) - when you reach the edge of the screen, it moves across.
* Bigger demolish tool.
* Plant trees on area.
* [[en/Manual/Sell entire train|Sell whole train]] by dragging to dynamite trashcan - Sells the whole train instead of just a single carriage.
* Cost estimation with Shift - Holding Shift on almost any action will show you how much it will cost you before you do it.
* Road and rail removing by dragging.
* Company HQ can now be moved somewhere else (cost 1% of company value).
* Autosave at a regular interval.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings/Vehicles|Autorenew/replace]] vehicles that are nearing their end of life.
* It's now possible to remove a platform from a station by clicking on the station tool and then on the remove tool, then on the platform you want to remove.
* All TTDLX save games are supported (.SS1, .SV1, .SV2, .SV0, .SS0). 
* High score table
* New pathfinding algorithm for trains.
* [[en/Manual/Landscaping]].

==New options==

* "No train service" option.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable inflation|Disable inflation]] option.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Full load any cargo|Full load any]] option, as in [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] - Your train will leave the station if ANY of its cargos are full.
* "[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Select goods]]" option.
* "Multiple similar industries in close proximity" option.
* "Multiple industries per town" option.
* News item for "train is unprofitable".
* News item for "train is lost".
* Ability to set the starting date, takes a value on the form yyyy, yyyymm or yyyymmdd.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable AI vehicles|Select]] what vehicle types the AI will build.
* Ability to choose snowline height.
* Change default servicing interval for vehicles.
* Change maximum number of vehicles per player.
* Option for percent-based service intervals. Send a vehicle to depot after it has lost X% of its reliability

==Graphical/interface features==

* Screenshots can be BMP, PNG or PCX (select in game options menu).
* More currencies (including Euro introduction in 2002 and your own custom currencies).
* More townname languages.
* Windowed mode or fullscreen including resolution selection.
* Sticky windows (don't close unless you close them yourself) and snappy windows (windows align themselves against each other when dragged).
* Resizeable windows.
* Refresh rate configuration setting.
* Town directory sorting.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings]] configuration window.
* Use Ctrl-click to repay full loan or take out full loan.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Coloured newspaper|Color newspaper]] after a certain date.
* Game speed increase (through fast forward button or by pressing Tab).
* Plant a random tree type.
* [[en/Manual/Hotkeys|Hotkeys]] for almost every action.
* [[en/Archive/Community/Internationalization|Translations]] into a multitude of languages, selectable in-game at any point.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF|Loading new graphics sets]].
* Bring up an [[en/Manual/Extra Viewport|extra viewport]] showing any part of the map.
* Color-coded vehicle profits.
* Invalid orders in a vehicle's schedule are highlighted in red and generate a warning.

For details of every change, see [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Main Page]]