[[Translation:en/Manual/Railway station]]
{{zh/Manual/目录}}
'''铁路车站''' 是一切铁路网络的核心组成。它可以用于向火车装卸货物。对于您的铁路网络来说，最好将车站放置在主干道以外的路上确保避免不必要的车流穿过导致火车的延误。
__TOC__
{{en/-}}
==基本车站==
以下的车站易于建设，在火车数量较少时运行流畅.当交通密度增加时，你可能就需要考虑高级车站了。
===终端式===
===RoRo式===
===得来速式===
===终端-RoRo混合式===
===包式===

==高级车站==
==NewGRF车站==
NewGRF车站，或者叫Newstations站,是在您安装了Newstation的grf文件后可以使用的。之后您将会拥有一个新的站台建造窗口。
The new GUI has a drop down box of station groups. Each group has a number of station tiles to choose from. Select a station tile and it will be previewed in the orientation boxes. Some newstation tiles do not allow trains to enter for the effect of full buildings or buffer stops. Be aware when placing newstation tiles that some tiles do not allow more than so many tracks or squares. The numbers not allowed will be greyed out and you cannot build this size. Some newstations sets offer more visual effects than others. For example, in Michael Blunck's newstations, passengers will gather on station platforms as the waiting cargo increases.
If the station set contains newgrf waypoints, the Waypoint GUI will open upon selecting it. You will have full previews of every waypoint possible for you to build. Most waypoints have introduction and obsoletion dates, in which waypoint styles will be replaced by newer versions. However, any waypoints you have already built will not automatically changed, allowing for variation on your networks.
Newstations behave the same as normal stations; the only difference is the non-track tiles that block trains.
==请参见==