''« Back to [[en/Community/Scenarios/Main Page]]''
----

http://www.carstenrau.de

----

Playing TT since 1995!

TTD => WILL SATISFY THE MEGALOMANIAC IN EVERYONE !!!

----

'''Download my Scenarios:'''

Whole Europe based on NASA SRTM-Data:<br>
Size 2048x2048<br>
[[en/Community/Scenarios/Europe|Europe]]<br>
<br>
Whole World based on a geographical height map:<br>
Size 8192x4096<br>
[[en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsWorldScenario|CarstsWorldScenario]]<br>
<br>
Whole Germany and parts of Netherlands based on SRTM-Date:<br>
Size 4096x4096<br>
Scenario coming soon...<br>
<br>
Training-Scnenario, perfect for teaching TTD to new players:<br>
Size 256x256<br>
[[en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsTrainingScenario v3|CarstsTrainingScenario_v3]]<br>
<br>
Mega-Scenario, only land, lot of cities and industries:<br>
Size 2048x2048<br>
[[en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsMonsterScenario v3|CarstsMonsterScenario_v3]]<br>
<br>
----

Scenario presentation thread in the TT-forums: http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=60&t=37089&p=681203#p681203

Some general information regarding my scenarios:<br>
- Updated regulary for changes or new builds of TTD (but old versions should still work).<br>
- Actual version "v3" of all scenarios.<br>
- Besides the training- and mega-scenario i try to base all my scenarios on NASA SRTM-Data and try to include lakes, rivers and a good number of towns. Because the world-scenario was to large for merged DEMs from SRTM (read or i would have to scale them down too much) i just a geographical height map, that should be very realistic, too.<br>
- I use some GRFs (graphics enhancements) in all maps, that are DBSetXL, GermanTramSet, NewStations, PlaneSet.<br>
- You should be able to play all scenarios without these GRFs, but i will provide a zip- download containing all four. All rights stay at their coders and if one coder has a problem with me redistributing his work please contact me.<br>
- GRFs used in my scenarios, download link: [http://web1.delta234.server4you.de/diverses/openttd/grfs.zip Download]<br>
- All my scenario downloads include a version to start in 1920 and one to start in 1950.<br>
- more to come...<br>

----

{{en/Archive/Community/Users/Userbox Scenarios Team}}