What's this? Oh right, a page about me. Let's see, what should should I put in here?!

First, let me thank all OpenTTD developers, all NewGRF developers and all other contributers for making this wonderful game even better, ever day!
__TOC__

== (O)TTD and Me ==
I'm playing TTDX on and off ever since I got the game as a christmas present, that must have been 1999. Four years ago I got myself a laptop computer running XP. I was very disappointed when I discovered that TTDX didn't run on the damn thing, so I kept playing the game on my parents desktop which still ran Win98 back then; and TTDX ;)
Some months after I got that laptop, a friend of mine pointed my nose into the right direction. The OpenTTD direction! And I'm playing it ever since. I should be able to find out the exact date I started playing OpenTTD, because the installer I used back then should be somewhere on my hard drive. I'll look into that later...
{{en/Note|Note to self: figure out when I started playing OTTD.}}
== TT-Forums and Me ==
On the 21st of May 2007 I registered at [http://www.tt-forums.net TT-Forums] after lurking for several months. I don't know what my first post was back then, but it's probably something stupid as in 'did I register just to say that?'. Anyways, after some time I felt I needed to contribute to the game and the community. There were several options: donate money; play the game even more; do something creative. I chose the latter, and started creating [[en/Manual/NewGRF]].

== NewGRF and Me ==
After doing some minor things, basically figuring out what NewGRF was about, I started creating a new type of tram tracks: New Tram Tracks. After that, I got involved in the Dutch Tram Set project, became the main coder for the project and even drew some vehicles myself. I didn't consider myself a graphics artist at that time. Not too long ago, I came up with the idea of a Maglev track replace set: the Transrapid Track Set. It's still a WIP project. Just recently I got involved in the Graphics Replacement Project; I've drawn the New Stations for the project.

Apart from those major projects, I did some initial coding to get other people started, most notably the Modern Tram Set. I also released a bugfix version of Kolijn Wolfaardt's New Terrain.

== Overview of my NewGRF Projects ==
{{en/Note|I'll add screenshots later.}}
{| border="1" width="100%"
!!!Name!!Description!!Screenshot!!Link!!Status!!
|-
|||'''New Tram Tracks'''||New Tram Tracks is a tramway replacement set featuring grass embedded off road tracks and single-sided wire supports for the overhead wires.<br /><br />New Tram Tracks supports the Temperate, Sub-Arctic and Tropical climates, as well as the New Terrain and the Japanese Landscape Set.<br /><br />Additionally, the player can choose between two types of wire supports: the set's default single-sided wire supports or an alternative with slightly slimmer poles (not shown in screenshot).<br /><small>I consider this set finished, but support for other terrains might be added in the future.</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=605580#p605580 Download]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}||
|-
|||'''Dutch Tram Set'''||The Dutch Tram Set is New Graphics Set which adds a great number of both historical and current Dutch trams to TTDPatch or OpenTTD.<br /><br />This set is aimed to give an historical overview of Dutch trams while ensuring quality gameplay through customized statistics.<br /><small>Although this set is not finished, a public beta is available for download</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=609644#p609644 Download]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/WIP}}||
|-
|||'''Transrapid Track Set'''||Probably everybody agrees: the default maglev tracks look a bit odd. That's why I decided to start creating something that does look like the real thing: the TransRapid Track Set.<br /><small>This set is in an early stage of development. Still a lot has to be done before it's finished. An alpha preview GRF is available for download.</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=638985#p638985 Download]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/WIP}}||
|-
|||'''OpenGFX Rail Stations'''||Three new station designs for the OpenTTD [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement]] Project.<br /><small>Available as a single download together with the OpenGFX Road Stations.</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=654996#p654996 Download]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}||
|-
|||'''OpenGFX Road Stations'''||New bus and truck stations for the OpenGFX [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement]] Project. A modern bus station design is included. This is available from the year 2000, after reloading the game.<br /><small>Available as a single download together with the OpenGFX Road Stations.</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=654996#p654996 Download]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}||
|-
|||'''OpenGFX Stations Extended'''||As many people like the stations I made for the 8bpp Graphics Replacement Project, I plan on creating an extended station set including those stations.<br /><small>No download available yet.</small>||-||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=35667 Development Topic]||{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/WIP}}||

|}

Thanks for reading!
== Additional Reading ==
[[en/Manual/NewGRF]]

[[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement]]

== External Links ==
[http://www.tt-forums.net/ Transport Tycoon Forums]

[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=33023 Modern Tram Set topic]

[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=31079 New Terrain topic] ([http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=622615#p622615 Latest Version]