==GoneWacko==
Hello :)<br>
I'm GoneWacko, a male from The Netherlands, born on the 20th of June, 1988. (you do the maths if you want to know my age... I'm not going to update this page every year)<br>
<br>
I love TTD and TTDPatch.<br>
At first I was a bit unsure about OpenTTD. But over time I have come to like it, especially since 0.3.5 introduced stable network support.<br>
It was on 2nd January 2005 that I wrote my first patch for OpenTTD: The 'Create Lake' tool for the scenario editor.<br>
I plan to do more work for OpenTTD and in the process learn the ins and outs of C (Although I was advised not to do so do so (with OpenTTD at least)).<br>
I am pretty new to C though.<br>

==Modifications==
So far, I have created the following patches/modifications/features/experiments:
*29th December 2005: When I was very bored I decided to download the OpenTTD source (under Linux) and play around with it. After some time I had a new button in the Main Menu that opened a window with nothing in it. (Clicking the window somehow stopped the title screen game to stop :P) Because this was just an experiment and completely useless this was never submitted to the devteam.
*2nd January 2005: I created the 'Create Lake' tool for the Scenario Editor, making it easier to create a lake or sea. I hated the fact that the only way to create a lake or sea was to flood the area from an existing pool of water by digging a ditch, and afterwards removing the ditch again. This tool simply creates a water tile (as long as the tile is at sealevel (at least until the MapRewrite is done) that afterwards floods the region.
*4th January 2005: I modified the 'create desert' tool in the scenario editor so that one can now drag it to create large patches of desert, or remove them. To my knowledge, it is the first time <b>one</b> window has 3 draggable tools. :)

==Working on:==
I'm still doing some very simple patches to get a feel for the code.<br>
I am trying some more stuff for the Create Lake tool, like highlighting the cells that will get flooded, and perhaps also do the flooding itself, immidiately.