{{en/Archive/Lists/Newgrf|title        = Stations ([http://grfcrawler.tt-forums.net/index.php?do=list&cid=2 all on ]

|Name1        = City Stations
|Id1          = 52455400 
|Description1 = [www.tttt testing link]
|Image1       =
|Homepage1    = 
|links1       =

|Name2        = Suburban Stations
|Id2          = 52455300 
|Description2 = line1<br> line2<br> line3<br> line4
|Image2       =
|Homepage2    = http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21344
|links2       = 

|Name3        = Rural Stations
|Id3          = 5245200
|Description3 = Suited to almost every climate. It has a full compliment of station elements. Full-tile platforms, basic platforms, platforms, benches, shelters in a number of combinations, an overpass, and a passenger building.
|Image3       =
|Homepage3    = http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21344
|links3       = [www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=27112&st=0&sk=t&sd=a Discussion] - [www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=27112&st=0&sk=t&sd=a Discussion] - [www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=27112&st=0&sk=t&sd=a Discussion] - [www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=27112&st=0&sk=t&sd=a Discussion]

|Name4        = Industrial Stations
|Id4          = 4A430002 
|Description4 = Industrial stations with facilities to cover all cargos in the game. Features gradual loading cargo showing in platforms, animated sprites and non-track tiles.
|Image4       =
|Homepage4    = www.as-st.com/ttd/indstatstech/index.html 
|links4       = [www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=27112&st=0&sk=t&sd=a Discussion]
|newcargoes   = yes
|32bpp        = yes
}}

This is My work/test space  please ignore it.


Navbox almost done, i still want that hide option, added documentation.

__TOC__



==Usefull Editing resources==

===Templates:===

*[[:Category:en/Templates|All Templates]]
*[[:Category:en/Message boxes|Message boxes Templates]]
*[[:Category:en/Navigation|Navigation Templates]]


==spcial links==
===Editing and Moderaation===

*[[Special:Lonelypages|Orphaned pages]] - pages that are not linked from other pages in OpenTTD.
*[[Special:Deadendpages|Dead end pages]] - pages that do not link to other pages in OpenTTD. 

*[[Special:Uncategorizedcategories|Uncategorized categories]]
*[[Special:Uncategorizedpages|Uncategorized pages]]
*[[Special:Uncategorizedimages|Uncategorized images]]

*[[Special:Unusedimages|Unused images]]
*[[Special:Unusedcategories|Unused categories]]
*[[Special:Unusedtemplates|Unused templates]]

*[[Special:BrokenRedirects|Broken Redirects]]
*[[Special:DoubleRedirects|Double Redirects]]
*[[Special:Listredirects|List of all redirects]]

*[[Special:Longpages|Too Long pages]]


===Overview===

*[[Special:Popularpages|Popular pages]]
*[[Special:Statistics|Statistics]]
*[[Special:Newpages|New pages]]
*[[Special:Newimages|New images]]


===Request===

*[[Special:Wantedpages|Wanted pages]]
*[[Special:Wantedcategories|Wanted categories]]


===Other===

*[[Special:Allpages|All pages]]
*[[Special:Categories|All Categories]]
*[[Special:Whatlinkshere|What links here]]



==Usefull links==

*[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Magic_words Help:Magic_words]

===Basic links===
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Tutorial Tutorial]


*[http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Link Links]
*[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Images Images]
*[http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Advanced_editing Text markup], making your page look the way you want
*[http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Help:Table Tables]
*[http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Extension:ParserFunctions If,case, etc...]




==temp==

NAME / Description / years  (for vehicles) / nationality
GRFID / Homepage / additional link / image?
works revision / support new cargoes / 32bpp

need a normal templates, to separate data from layout

only a basic list:
{|
|- VALIGN=top
== Vehicles ==
=== Trains / Wagons ===
* 2cc - Trains of the World in 2cc (Alpha Release)

* North American Renewal 
* UK Renewal Train 
* Serbian rail sets
* Japan Set 
* Norwegian Trainset

|- WIDTH=100 
=== Road vehicles & Trams ===
* GRVTS - Includes road vehicles and trams for 1950 to 2050, support newGRF cargoes.
* eGRVTS - Includes 218 road vehicles and trams for 1800 to 2075, support newGRF cargoes.
* Long vehicles - Includes numerous number of Buses and trucks.
* HEQS 

|- WIDTH=100 
=== Ships ===
* FISH - new ship models
* New Ships - new ship models

|- WIDTH=100 
=== Planes ===
* Aviators Aircraft (av8)
* Planeset 


|- WIDTH=100 
== Stations ==
* City Stations
* Rural Stations
* Suburban Stations
* Industrial Stations

|- WIDTH=100 
== Town Buildings ==
* 1
* 2
* 3
* 4

|- WIDTH=100 
== Industries / Cargos ==
* ECS -
* FIRS -
* PBI -

|- WIDTH=100 
== Infrastructure ==
* 1
* 2
* 3
* 4

|- WIDTH=100 
== Landscape ==
* 1
* 2
* 3
* 4

|- WIDTH=100 
== Other ==
* 1
* 2
* 3
* 4
|}