=Pasky - Occasional OpenTTD Developer=


==Who am I?==
I'm a 20 years old geek studying the computer sience on the Faculty of Math and Physics at the Charles University, Prague. I joined the OpenTTD project in April and since then I produced an extensive amount of bugfixes as well as new features, cleanups and such. My most popular feature is probably the [[en/NewGRF support]] (and possibly the dynamically generated Czech town names), but I also e.g. made the town growth code to scale even for cities with population >10k, originally coded the [[en/AutoRenew]] feature and the rewritten [[en/Build system]], and a large number of various smaller things.

I am a season developer - I usually develop in about two to three week bursts once per half a year. In these periods I am generally available on the IRC #openttd channel, otherwise you can reach me at pasky@ucw.cz. I am keen to help you with your OTTD development, explaining the code in OTTD I am familiar with etc even off-season. :-)


==His first words==
I joined the project on 2004-04-24. First I squared up with the legal stuff:
<pre>14:34 < pasky> Huh, what licence is OpenTTD under?</pre>
...then making sure the OTTD developers are aware of what are they going to cause...
<pre>14:37 * -> pasky has one month to his mature exam.
14:37 < pasky> If I won't pass, it's your fault!</pre>
(I passed)
...and then finally getting to work...
<pre>14:45 < pasky> Hmm, and the build system itself appears to be quite funny.
14:45 < pasky> Would you mind some patches? :)</pre>