__NOTOC__
== Spoken Languages: ==
* German (native)
* English (im good at writing english, but translating from it somehow takes me forever...)
== What i like doing on the Wiki: ==
* "Making things work"
* Working with templates. Examples: [[en/Pystro/Template/Link Translation]], [[en/Archive/Community/Users/Pystro/Template/Spacing out vehicles]], or search for: "User:Pystro/Template:" in user category.
* Fixing Errors/Bugs
* Explaning (complex) strategies i came up with. (for Example: [[de/Archive/Community/Users/Pystro/Fahrzeuge vereinzeln]], [[de/Pystro/Links ist doof]]
== List of Editing resources ==
{{en/Bilingual box|de
|Meine Favoriten, hauptsächlich als Nachschlagewerk für mich selbst, aber ich hoffe, ich kann auch anderen damit helfen.
|My favourites, mainly as a quick reference for myself , but i hope its also usefull to others.
}}
Feel free to contribute if you think i could be interested in some more, but please leave your name behind the link.
=== General ===
* [[en/Editing help]] General wiki '''command''' help.
* [[en/Wiki/Manual of Style]] Good '''Style'''. How to name articles and keep them good-looking...
=== Categories ===
* Try to always place a page in apropriate Categories with {{en/C|<nowiki>[[Category:Example]]</nowiki>|}} (at the bottom).
* Important root categories: [[:Category:en/Manual/Playing]], [[:Category:de/Manual/Spielen]], [[:Category:en/Development]], [[:Category:de/Entwicklung]], [[:Category:en/Manual/Installation]] [[:Category:de/Manual/Installation]].
* '''Linking''' to a category ''page'' is done with {{en/C|<nowiki>[[:Category:Example]]</nowiki>|}}.
=== Templates ===
==== Using and editing templates ====
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Template Wikipedia:Help:Template] '''Help''' on templates. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Magic_words Wikimedia Functions] Things like "if", ucfirst, and other functions usefull for templates.
* [[en/Wiki/Templates]] Most '''"important"''' templates. '''Warnings''' and stuff.
* [http://wiki.openttd.org/Special:Mostlinkedtemplates?limit=500 Most linked Templates]
==== Misc templates ====
(Really, look at them. I think they are very usefull.)
* [[Template:en/Delete]] Request for '''deletion'''.
* [[Template:de/Löschen]] Löschanfrage.
* [[Template:en/Keypress]] For Keypress-(combinations) like {{en/Keypress|Shift|F8}}. And [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Key_press Wikipedia:Template:Key_press] help on keypress-template (Key names to get the symbols).
* [[Template:en/C]] For inline preformatted '''commands/code'''.
==== Translation templates ====
* [[Template:en/Other languages]] The '''link-bar''' to other translations. (1: Listing languges without translation looks stupid. 2: language page=... can be omitted!)
* [[Template:de/Während Übersetzung]] '''Seperator''' for: Translated <-> not translated.
* [[Template:de/Übersetzung]] / [[Template:en/Translation]] Translation Box for '''top of page''' (with percentage).
* [[Template:en/Bilingual box]] Box for '''text in 2 languages'''.
* [[en/Pystro/Template/Link Translation]] Template for '''links in 2 languages'''.