[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Console Variables]]
[[Category:en/Manual/Console]]

== Default variables ==
Variables are values that remember their new setting after an assignment. By just typing their name you get their current value. <variable> <value>, or with an '=' in between sets a new value. Boolean variables are special, you can set them to true with '1', 'true' or 'on' and to false with '0', 'false' and 'off'.

; autoclean_companies: Automatically shut down inactive companies to free them up for other players. Customize with 'autoclean_(un)protected'
; autoclean_protected: Automatically remove the password from an inactive company after the given amount of months
; autoclean_unprotected: Automatically shut down inactive companies after the given amount of months
; company_pw: Set a password for your company, so no one without the correct password can join. Use '*' to clear the password
; developer: Redirect debugging output from the console/command line to the ingame console (value 2). Default value: 1
; max_clients: Set the maximum allowed players. Default value: 10
; max_companies: Set the maximum number of companies. Default value: 8
; max_join_time: Set the maximum amount of time (ticks) a client is allowed to join. Default value: 500
; max_spectators: Set the maximum allowed number of people observing the gameplay. Default value: 10
; name: Set your name for multiplayer
; net_frame_freq: The amount of frames before a command will be (visibly) executed. Default value: 1
; net_sync_freq: The amount of frames to check if the game is still in sync. Default value: 100
; pause_on_join: Set if the server should pause gameplay while a client is joining. This might help slow users
; rcon_pw: Set the rcon-password to change server behaviour. Use '*' to disable rcon
; restart_game_year: Auto-restart the server when Jan 1st of the set year is reached. Use '0' to disable this
; server_advertise: Set if the server will advertise to the master server and show up there
; server_ip: Set the IP the server binds to. Changes take effect the next time you start a server
; server_name: Set the name of the server for multiplayer
; server_port: Set the server port. Changes take effect the next time you start a server
; server_pw: Set the server password to protect your server. Use '*' to clear the password

== Debug Variables [not available in release (+ network games)] ==
; con_developer: Enable/disable console debugging information (internal)
;