[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Console Settings]]
These settings can be accessed through the console using the '''set''' command. See also the [[en/Manual/Console Commands|console command listing]].
== Settings ==
; autoclean_companies on/off : Enable this to declare empty companies (companies with no activate clients) bankrupt after a certain amount of months (see below)
; autoclean_protected <months> : Delay in game months before a protected company is declared bankrupt
; autoclean_unprotected <months> : Delay in game months before an unprotected company is declared bankrupt
; company_pw "<password>" : Sets the password of the current players company. Set the password to * to disable it.
; name "<playername>" : Sets the current players name
; server_name "<name>" : Sets the servers name
; server_advertise on/off : Enable this to report your server to the master server. This controls whether your server is visible in the internet server list or not
; server_bind_ip <ip> : Binds the server to a specific IP. Standard setting is 0.0.0.0 so the server binds itself to all available IPs of the computer
; server_port <port> : Sets the port where the server listens for connections.
; server_pw "<password>" : Sets the password which is needed to join the server. Set the password to * to disable it.
; rcon_pw "<password>" : Sets the rcon password (see the rcon command).
; restart_game_date "<year>" : Sets the year when the game ends and a new one starts
; patch <patch_name> [<value>] : Changes the value of a patch or reads its value out.

[[Category:en/Manual/Console]]