[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Settings/New global pathfinding]]
[[Category:en/Patch Settings]]
[[Category:en/Manual/Vehicles]]

A [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings|setting]] that uses a completely different pathfinding algorithm for all [[en/Manual/Vehicles|vehicles]].

'''NPF is superseded by [[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another Pathfinder]] for all purposes.'''

== Description ==
New global PathFinder (NPF) global pathfinder which works for all vehicles. Uses an A* algorithm to find its route. It's fast, it's good and will always return the best results. However, on extremely complex railway networks it can be CPU-consuming, so on older machines (and bigmaps with lots of trains), it might lower performance and thus can be disabled. If this is the case, then you should probably at least enable [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/New train pathfinding|New Train Pathfinding (NTP)]] or the [[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another Pathfinder|Yet Another Pathfinder (YAPF)]]

===Configuration Options===

NPF has the following set of configuration options:
This feature also has the following configuration options:
{|
|'''npf_max_search_nodes'''||The maximum amount of search nodes a single NPF run should take. This limit should make sure performance stays at acceptable levels at the cost of not being perfect anymore. This will probably be fixed in a more sophisticated way sometime soon.
|-
|'''npf_rail_firstred_penalty'''||The penalty for when the first signal is red (and it is not an exit or combo signal)
|-
|'''npf_rail_firstred_exit_penalty'''||The penalty for when the first signal is red (and it is an exit or combo signal)
|-
|'''npf_rail_lastred_penalty'''||The penalty for when the last signal is red
|-
|'''npf_rail_station_penalty'''||The penalty for rail station tiles 
|-
|'''npf_rail_slope_penalty'''||The penalty for sloping upwards on rail
|-
|'''npf_rail_curve_penalty'''||The penalty for curves on rail
|-
|'''npf_rail_depot_reverse_penalty'''||The penalty for reversing in depots
|-
|'''npf_buoy_penalty'''||The penalty for going over (through) a buoy
|-
|'''npf_water_curve_penalty'''||The penalty for curves for boats
|}

== Use ==

This feature is disabled by default. You can enable this patch through the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Configuring patches/Vehicles|configure patches -> vehicles]] window or use the following syntax in [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Openttd.cfg]]:
<pre>
[patches]
new_pathfinding_all = true
</pre>

The configuration options may only be changed in [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Openttd.cfg]]:

<pre>
[patches]
npf_max_search_nodes = 10000
npf_rail_firstred_penalty = 1000
npf_rail_firstred_exit_penalty = 10000
npf_rail_lastred_penalty = 1000
npf_rail_station_penalty = 100
npf_rail_slope_penalty = 100
npf_rail_curve_penalty = 1
npf_rail_depot_reverse_penalty = 5000
npf_buoy_penalty = 200
npf_water_curve_penalty = 25
</pre>

== Notes ==

The algorithm is pretty amazing compared to the old system. Because of the penalty for red signals, it's quite easy to build simple load-balancing systems in some cases, especially in front of stations. Take care however when modifying tracks: if there is no path, the trains will try to get as close to the target station as possible and can get very lost doing so.

== See Also ==
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another Pathfinder]] (YAPF)