{{en/Manual/Navigation}}
= The Scott Joplin Anthology =
The Scott Joplin Anthology is a Base Music set replacement for the in-game music for OpenTTD 1.0.0 or greater. The set is a collection of 31 musical works from American composer [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scott_Joplin Scott Joplin], a/k/a "the King of Ragtime". 

Joplin's classic Ragtime pieces are best enjoyed in early OpenTTD games, particularly between 1890 and 1930. This collection is available for download from the support topic, and from the in-game content download service (BaNaNaS). 

== About Scott Joplin ==
Joplin came into the Chicago "jig piano" music scene in the 1890s just as Ragtime music started to come around, and Joplin quickly found himself to be a frequently requested performer. Joplin's breakthrough in commercial music came with 1899's "Maple Leaf Rag". While Joplin never became a pop music sensation during his lifetime, he was recognized by his peers and music critics as being particularly gifted and ahead of his time. Joplin was able to use his influence in the music community to refine Ragtime music from crude piano dance music played in seedy clubs into popular music that became a classic form of art in its own right.

== Download and Installation == 
For all versions of OpenTTD which support the in-game content downloading  service (BaNaNaS), simply select the set from the in-game menu. 

This set is not usable in OpenTTD versions prior to 1.0.0-beta1. 

For versions 1.0.x-1.1.x, you can unpack the files into the '''''/gm''''' directory, or a subdirectory thereof. It is not advisable to unpack the files into the '''''/content_download/gm''''' directory. 

For versions 1.2.x and newer, you can unpack the files into the '''''/baseset''''' directory, or a subdirectory thereof. It is not advisable to unpack the files into the '''''/content_download/baseset''''' directory. 

== More information and support ==
For more information about this set, please visit the OpenTTD Wiki at 
http://wiki.openttd.org/Scott_Joplin_Anthology

For support and technical issue about this set, please visit 
http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=48866

[[Category:en/Community/Base Sets/Base Music]]