[[Translation:en/Community/NewGRF/Aviators Aircraft Set]]
{{en/Community/NewGRF/Infobox NewGRF|setname= Aviators Aircraft Set
|screenshot= en/Community/NewGRF/Av8.png
|artist= Pikkabird
|coder= Pikkabird
|focus= en/Community/NewGRF/Addons Aircraft
|homepage= www.pikkarail.com/ttdp/av8/
|homepagename= Aviators Aircraft Set for TTDPatch and OpenTTD
|copyright= copyrighted
}}
The '''Aviators Aircraft Set''', which was also known as '''Av8''', which is a play on the word '''Aviate''', is an [[en/Manual/Aircraft]] [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] set for [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/TTDPatch]] and [[en/Manual/Main Page]] created by [[en/Archive/Community/Users/PikkaBird]]. 

There is a large range of planes from early propeller aircraft and airships in 1920 to 2050, with larger planes like the A380. The set is renowned for utilising different graphics for taxiing, and takeoff and landing, giving a more realistic view on planes.

The set, like the [[en/Community/NewGRF/UK Renewal Set]], uses new sounds. Unlike the UK Renewal Set, this does not include running sounds, but landing and take off sounds.

Unlike traditional drawing for TTD, many planes in av8 were created by creating full 3d models, which were then rendered and resized to TTD scale, in a similar manner to how graphics for the new graphics engine will be created, and how Locomotion's graphics were created. 

== See also ==
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] Documentation
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/Main Page]] &mdash; A list of working GRF files in OTTD.
* [[en/Archive/Community/NewGRF FAQ]] &mdash; Answers to frequent questions and problems using GRF files in OpenTTD.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] &mdash; The NewGRF Settings window is a new feature which allows better management of NewGRF files. 
* [[en/Archive/Lists/NewGRF Sets]] &mdash; A list of articles about NewGRF sets.

==External Links==
*[http://www.pikkarail.com/ttdp/av8/ Official Site]
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=67&t=57094 TT-Forums Release Thread]
*[http://users.tt-forums.net/pikka/wiki/index.php?title=Aviators_Aircraft_Set PikkaWiki Page]


[[Category:en/Community/NewGRF/NewGRF Sets]]