'''BRTrains''' is a [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] set coded in [[en/NML]] with only real-life liveries, (no Company Colours, sorry), spanning all eras of the British Railway history.
{{en/Manual/Navigation}}
==GRF History==
Development began in April 2016, with the goal to finally use all the vehicles created for various real-world liveried train sets over the years, into a fully coded set which could build and grow over time.

The set draws artwork for numerous different artists from the tt-forums community, yet all drawn to the same scale - kinda.

===Features===
*A Full Array of British Rail Classes (and sub-classes) covering the history of British Railways
*Real-World Liveries for each Class, Refittable at the Player's Choice.
*Algorithm driven Purchase and Running Costs to ensure that all trains are competitive.
*Vast Collection of Rolling Stock covering all standard TTD cargo classes. Later to include ECS/FIRS/etc.
*Custom sounds for some trains.

===Version History===
====Pre-release====
* 26/05/17 - 0.3.5
:*Feature: BR Class 220 'Voyager' and 221 'Super Voyager'
* 26/05/17 - 0.3.4
:*Fix: Corrected Wrongly Animated Colours
:*Feature: BR Class 222 'Meridian' and 222/1 'Pioneer'

==Screenshots==

==GRF Parameters==
{|border=1 bordercolor=black cellspacing=0 cellpadding=10 align=center width=80%
! Function !! Details
|-
|Running Sounds 
|The following options are available:<br>
'''Disabled''' - No Running Sounds Active.<br> 
'''Enabled''' - Running Sounds Active<br>      
|-
|Max Speed 
|The following options are available:<br>
'''Service Speed''' - Maximum Speeds Used In Real-Life Service<br> 
'''Design Speed''' - Maximum Speeds As Designed by Real-Life Manufacturer<br>
|-
|Complexity
|The following options are available:<br>
'''All Trains''' - Includes all Classes and Sub-Classes<br> 
'''Representative Selection''' - Declutters Purchase List, removing some subclasses<br>
|}

==Download and Discussion==
Download the GRF from Bananas, the OpenTTD in-game content system.  You can discuss the grf on the [https://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=74766 forum thread].

{{en/Incomplete}}
==Features and Vehicles==
A complete list of vehicles and features in BRTrains 
=== Trains ===
All trains included in BRTrains, in the default order shown on the purchase list
{|
| Train Class/Name || Release date || Capacity || Max Speed (mph)
|-
|GNR Gresley A1 || 1922 || N/A || 108
|-
|LNER Gresley A3 || 1928 || N/A || 108
|-
|Class 08 'Gronk' || 1952 || N/A || 20
|-
|Class 13 || 1965 || N/A || 20
|-
|Class 33/0 'Crompton' || 1960 || N/A || 85
|-
|Class 33/1 'Crompton' || 1965 || N/A || 85
|-
|Class 37 'Tractor' || 1960 || N/A || 85
|-
|Class 43 'HST' || 1975 || N/A || 125
|-
|Class 55 'Deltic' || 1961 || N/A || 100
|-
|Class 60 || 1989 || N/A || 60
|-
|Class 66 'Shed' || 1998 || N/A || 75
|-
|Class 67 'Skip' || 1999 || N/A || 125
|-
|Class 68 'Warskip' || 2013 || N/A || 100
|-
|Class 70 'Powerhaul' || 2008 || N/A || 75
|-
|Class 91 'Intercity 225' || 1989 || N/A || 125
|-
|Class 150/0 'Sprinter' || 1984 || 231 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 150/1 'Sprinter' || 1985 || 147 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 150/2 'Sprinter' || 1986 || 147 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 151 'Sprinter' || 1985 || 232 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 153 'Super Sprinter' || 1991 || 72 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 155 'Super Sprinter' || 1987 || 160 Passengers || 75 
|-
|Class 156 'Super Sprinter' || 1987 || 163 Passengers || 75
|-
|Class 158 'Express Sprinter' (2-Car)|| 1989 || 138 Passengers || 90
|-
|Class 158 'Express Sprinter' (3-Car)|| 1989 || 207 Passengers || 90
|-
|Class 159 'South Western Turbo' || 1993 || 194 Passengers || 90
|-
|Class 170 'Turbostar' (2-Car)|| 1998 || 107 Passengers || 100
|-
|Class 170 'Turbostar' (3-Car)|| 1998 || 174 Passengers || 100
|-
|Class 175/0 'Coradia' (2-Car)|| 1999 || 118 Passengers || 100
|-
|Class 175/0 'Coradia' (3-Car)|| 1999 || 186 Passengers || 100
|-
|Class 180 'Adelante' || 2002 || 287 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 185 'Desiro' || 2005 || 169 Passengers || 100
|-
|Class 220 'Voyager' || 2000 || 200 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 221 'Super Voyager' (5-Car) || 2001 || 262 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 221 'Super Voyager' (4-Car) || 2001 || 208 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 222 'Meridian' (7-Car) || 2004 || 394 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 222 'Meridian' (5-Car) || 2004 || 276 Passengers || 125
|-
|Class 222/1 'Pioneer' (4-Car) || 2005 || 232 Passengers || 125
|-
|HHA Wagon || 2002 || 79 Coal/79 Iron Ore || N/A
|}
{{Page:en/Community/NewGRF/BRTrains}}

[[Category:en/GRFs]]