[[Translation:en/Community/NewGRF/NewStations]]


{{en/Community/NewGRF/Infobox NewGRF|setname= NewStations
|screenshot=en/Community/NewGRF/Nstats Bamberg.png
|artist= Michael Blunck
|coder= Michael Blunck
|focus= en/Community/NewGRF/Addons Stations
|homepage= www.ttdpatch.de
|homepagename= Transport Tycoon - The New Graphics
|copyright= copyrighted
}}

'''NewStations''' is a large [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] set created by [[en/Archive/Community/Users/Michael Blunck]]. It features many types of stations, mostly passenger. A freight version is under development.

NewStations is the most popular station set, as it is so well drawn.

It was released in stages. First came a set of NewGRF Waypoints, followed by passenger stations. It's anticipated that Michael Blunck will release the freight stations in the future. Michael has released several "teaser" screenshots of these freight stations, and they are said to be animated. [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=486481#486481 [1<nowiki>]</nowiki>]

==External Links==
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=67&t=63651&sid=9434c6e6b5e7a2ae3da7380ca4fef76c NewStations v0.6 release thread incl download (tt-forums)] 
*[http://ttdpatch.de/download.html Download (home page)]

== See also ==
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] Documentation
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/Main Page]] &mdash; A list of working GRF files in OTTD.
* [[en/Archive/Community/NewGRF FAQ]] &mdash; Answers to frequent questions and problems using GRF files in OpenTTD.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] &mdash; The NewGRF Settings window is a new feature which allows better management of NewGRF files. 
* [[en/Archive/Lists/NewGRF Sets]] &mdash; A list of articles about NewGRF sets.

[[Category:en/Community/NewGRF/NewGRF Sets]]