[[Translation:en/Archive/Lists/Links]]
{{de/Übersetzung|en/Archive/Lists/Links|50}}
{{de/Manual/Inhaltsverzeichnis}}

==OpenTTD-spezifische Links==
*[http://www.openttd.org Offizielle Webseite]
*OpenTTD [[en/Archive/Manual/Download]]
*OpenTTD-Projektseite auf [http://sourceforge.net/projects/openttd SourceForge]
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=55 Forum]
*[irc://irc.oftc.net/openttd IRC Channel]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Troubleshooting]]

==OpenTTD bei Wikipedia==
*[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Deutsch]
*[http://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Català] (Katalanisch)
*[http://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Česky] (Tschechisch)
*[http://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Dansk] (Dänisch)
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD English] (Englisch)
*[http://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Suomi] (Finnisch)
*[http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Español] (Spanisch)
*[http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Français] (Französisch)
*[http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Tycoon Italiano] (Italienisch)
*[http://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Magyar] (Ungarisch)
*[http://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Bahasa Indonesia] (Indonesisch)
*[http://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 日本語] (Japanisch)
*[http://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 한국어] (Koreanisch)
*[http://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Latviešu] (Lettisch)
*[http://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Nederlands] (Niederländisch)
*[http://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Norsk (bokmål)] (Norwegisch)
*[http://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Polski] (Polnisch)
*[http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Português] (Portugiesisch)
*[http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Русский] (Russisch)
*[http://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Slovenčina] (Slowakisch)
*[http://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Slovenščina] (Slowenisch)
*[http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Svenska] (Schwedisch)
*[http://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Türkçe] (Türkisch)
*[http://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 中文] (Chinesisch)

==Generelle Transport Tycoon Links==
*[http://www.transporttycoon.net/ Owen's Transport Tycoon Station]
*[http://i-want-a-website.com/about-tt/ The Transport Tycoon Semi-FAQ]
*[http://www.nylon.net/ttd/index.html The relatively holy Church of Transport Tycoon]
*[http://o-keating.com/ttd/ Oliver Keating's Transport Tycoon Deluxe Site]
*[http://www.tt-terminal.co.uk Transport Tycoon Terminal]
*[http://www.tycoongames.net/ttdpages.html Transport Tycoon Deluxe Pages]
*[http://linkage.tt-forums.net/ TT-Forums Link Collector], including some not found here.
*[http://www.squidoo.com/history-of-transport-tycoon/ A Complete History of Transport Tycoon]

== Train Junctions ==
{{Page:en/Community/Junctionary/Links}}

==Graphics Links==
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/Main Page|NewGRF List]] List of our Graphic Sets.
* [http://grfcrawler.tt-forums.net/ GRFCrawler] A database of NewGRFs files.
* [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/ DevZone] Website dedicated to hosting NewGRF projects.

*Managing GRF files
:*[http://ttdpatch.de.vu Graphic Manager]
:*[http://www.antp.be/ttd/ Vehicles translate tool]

*Editing and Making New Graphics
:*[http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/nml NML] ([http://www.tt-wiki.net/wiki/NMLTutorial Tutorial])
:*[http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/grfcodec/ GRFCodec and NFORenum] ([http://www.tt-wiki.net/wiki/NFOTutorial Tutorial])
:*[http://www.tt-wiki.net/wiki/GraphicsTutorial Graphics tutorials] List of tutorials in the tt-wiki
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=6326 GRF Creator]
:*[http://www.divxland.org/ttd/grfwizard.htm GRF Wizard]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=4968 LibGrf]
:*[http://newgrf-specs.tt-wiki.net/wiki/PalettesAndCoordinates#Palettes Palette Documentation]
:*[http://users.tt-forums.net/purno/PDT/ Purno's Drawing Tutorials]
:*[http://www.tt-wiki.net/wiki/DrawingSprites Tutorial. Drawing new graphics by George]
:*[http://ade.se/projects/wingrf/wingrf.zip WinGrf]

*Converting Graphics
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=4447 Win-DOS Conversion]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=236890#236890 WIN-DOS GRF Converter]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=5226 GRDtoGRF conversion tool]

==Non english portals==
:*[http://www.openttd.fr openttd.fr] - French Speaking Community portal.
:*[http://www.openttd.info openttd.info] - Hungarian OpenTTD portal.
:*[http://www.tt-ms.de TT-MS] - German OpenTTD Community portal.
:*[http://blog.nn2k.de/spieletipps/openttd/ blog.nn2k.de] - German blog with tips and tricks for OpenTTD.
:*[http://www.korct.com TELKLAND] - Korean OpenTTD portal with RCT.
:*[http://forums.ttdrussia.net ttdrussia]] - Russian Speaking Community portal.

[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]
[[Category:en/Archive/Community/New Graphics]]