[[Translation:en/Archive/Source/Blitter]]
<div style="float: right;">__TOC__</div>
The blitter's primary task is to draw sprites onto the screen. It has to handle colour remapping and transparency effects. Additional methods are provided to pre-encode the game's sprite data into a format preferred by the blitter.

The following blitters exist in SVN:

* '''8bpp-simple''': 8bpp Simple Blitter (relative slow, but never wrong)
* '''8bpp-optimized''': 8bpp Optimized Blitter (compression + all-ZoomLevel cache)
* '''8bpp-debug''': 8bpp Debug Blitter (testing only)
* '''32bpp-simple''': 32bpp Simple Blitter (no palette animation)
* '''32bpp-optimized''': 32bpp Optimized Blitter (no palette animation)
* '''32bpp-anim''': 32bpp Animation Blitter (palette animation)
* '''null''': Null Blitter (does nothing)

== Methods ==

=== uint8 GetScreenDepth() ===
Get the screen depth this blitter works for. This is either: 8, 16, 24 or 32.

=== void Draw(Blitter::BlitterParams *bp, BlitterMode mode, ZoomLevel zoom) ===

Draw an image to the screen, given an amount of params defined above.

=== void DrawColorMappingRect(void *dst, int width, int height, int pal) ===

Draw a colortable to the screen. This is: the color of the screen is read and is looked-up in the palette to match a new color, which then is put on the screen again.

=== Sprite *Encode(SpriteLoader::Sprite *sprite, Blitter::AllocatorProc *allocator) ===

Convert a sprite from the loader to our own format.

The [[en/Archive/Development/SpriteLoader]] calls this method for each real sprite that it loads. This function needs to convert the sprite data from [[en/RGBAM format]] to the blitter's preferred format. For 8bpp blitters, this will usually mean dropping the RGBA data and just using the indexed M part.

=== const char *GetRenderer() ===

Get the renderer this class depends on.

[[Category:en/Development]]