[[Translation:en/Archive/OpenTTD/Changes from TTD]]
=What's in OpenTTD that wasn't in the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe?=

OpenTTD is modeled after the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe game by Chris Sawyer and enhances the game experience dramatically. Many features were inspired by [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] while others are original. You have also here a [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Comparison of OpenTTD and TTDPatch features]].

==Significant enhancements==

* Multiple ports - A native Linux version, Windows, Mac OS X, OS/2 and more
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Autorail|Autorail build tool]] - Lets you drag and drop rail in any direction and the computer will build the tracks in that direction for you.
* Bigger maps, up to 2048x2048 
* [[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles]]/[[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles]] - Allowing players to create waterways which stretch over the land and have ships navigate them.
* Larger stations - Stations can be longer, consisting of many more platforms.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Nonuniform stations|Non-uniform stations]] - Stations can be built slightly offset.
* Ability to [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Join train stations|join stations]] (of same width or length) - Building a station next to another station of the same type, width and lengths creates a single longer station.
* [[en/Manual/Waypoints]] - A special piece of track which can be placed on branching routes to force a train to use a particular branch to reach its destination.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Mammoth trains|Mammoth trains]] - Trains can be much longer.
* Multi-headed trains - Trains can have more than one engine to help increase the speed when carrying heavy loads, power up hills etc.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build on slopes|Build on slopes]] and coasts - It's possible to build on the slopes of the coastline or hills; the relevant tile is filled to a flat height for a certain cost.
* Goto depot order - Allows insertion of an order instructing a vehicle to return to the depot.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Longer bridges|Longer bridges]] - Bridges can span greater distances... at a price.
* Higher bridges - Bridges can span over greater heights enabling more complex networks.
* Three new [[en/Manual/Bridges|bridges]] - To enable greater use of the higher speed trains.
* [[en/Manual/Signals]] (CTRL-click on existing signals) - As [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] - special signals to aid building complex track layouts (usually used when there are many platforms connected to a single train line).
* [[en/Manual/Signals]] (CTRL-D to place them) - As [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch].
* [[en/Manual/Orders|Order sharing]] and [[en/Manual/Orders|copying]] ("goto" on other vehicle to copy, ctrl+"goto" to share) - Vehicles can now share orders with order changes propagating to all vehicles, and orders can just be copied by clicking on any other vehicle to save time.
* [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDpatch]-compatible Non-stop handling - Exactly as it says on the tin.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Crossing tunnels|Crossing tunnels]] - Tunnels may now cross over each other underground.
* Build many trees on one tile
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|Bribe the town authority]] - If your townsmen hate you, you can bribe the local authority to help you but it's expensive and runs the risk of you being caught.
* Much improved [[en/Manual/Multiplayer|networking and internet play]] by TCP/IP, including server lists, kick/ban, dedicated server, cheat protection and chat.
* A new AI (currently in progress)
* Three new types of airport ([[en/Manual/Airports|metropolitan]] in 1980, [[en/Manual/Airports|international]] in 1990 and [[en/Manual/Airports|intercontinental]] in 2002).
* [[en/Manual/Drive-through Road Stops]] - New kind of station for road vehicles. Much like a traditional real-life "bus stop", these new stations allow road vehicles to load/unload passengers and cargo simply by stopping by the side of the road.
* [[en/Manual/Tramways]] - New kind of road vehicles (like bus) and require special tracks, stops and depots for them.

==Better usability==

* [[en/Manual/Convert rail|Convert rail]] tool (to rail, monorail, maglev) - To enable you to easily switch your tracks to the latest technology.
* Build stations with drag & drop - Rather than guess at the size or count the tiles, just drag and drop the station over the desired area and it is built for you.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build in pause|Build while paused]] - An optional patch that allows building while the game is paused.
* Mouse wheel can be used to scroll in menus and to zoom in/out on win32 and Mac OS X
* Autoscroll (to left/right) - when you reach the edge of the screen, it moves across.
* Bigger demolish tool
* Plant trees on area
* [[en/Manual/Sell entire train|Sell whole train]] by dragging to dynamite trashcan - Sells the whole train instead of just a single carriage.
* Cost estimation with Shift - Holding Shift on almost any action will show you how much it will cost you before you do it.
* Road and rail removing by dragging
* Company HQ can now be moved somewhere else (cost 1% of company value)
* Autosave at a regular interval
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings/Vehicles|Autorenew]]/replace vehicles that are nearing their end of life
* It's now possible to remove a platform from a station by clicking on the station tool and then on the remove tool, then on the platform you want to remove.

==New options==

* "No train service" option
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable inflation|Disable inflation]] option
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Full load any cargo|Full load any]] option, as in [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] - Your train will leave the station if ANY of its cargos are full.
* "Select goods" option
* "Multiple similar industries in close proximity" option
* "Multiple industries per town" option
* News item for "train is unprofitable"
* News item for "train is lost"
* Ability to set the starting date, takes a value on the form yyyy, yyyymm or yyyymmdd.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable AI vehicles|Select]] what vehicle types the AI will build
* Ability to choose snowline height
* Change default servicing interval for vehicles
* Change maximum number of vehicles per player
* New pathfinding algorithm for trains
* [[en/Manual/Landscaping]]

==Graphical/interface features==

* Screenshots can be BMP, PNG or PCX (select in game options menu)
* More currencies (including Euro introduction in 2002 and your own custom currencies)
* More townname languages
* Windowed mode or fullscreen including resolution selection.
* Sticky windows (don't close unless you close them yourself) and snappy windows (windows align themselves against each other when dragged).
* Resizeable windows
* Refresh rate configuration setting
* Town directory sorting
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Configuring patches|Patch options]] configuration window
* Use Ctrl-click to repay full loan or take out full loan
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Coloured newspaper|Color newspaper]] after a certain date
* Game speed increase (through fast forward button or by pressing Tab)
* Plant a random tree type
* [[en/Manual/Hotkeys|Hotkeys]] for almost every action
* [[en/Archive/Community/Internationalization|Translations]] into a multitude of languages, selectable in-game at any point.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF|Loading new graphics sets]]
* Bring up an [[en/Manual/Extra Viewport|extra viewport]] showing any part of the map
* Color-coded vehicle profits
* Invalid orders in a vehicle's schedule are highlighted in red and generate a warning
* Option for percent-based service intervals. Send a vehicle to depot after it has lost X% of its reliability
* All TTDLX save games are supported (.SS1, .SV1, .SV2, .SV0, .SS0). 
* High score table

For details of every change, see [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Main Page]]