[[Translation:en/Archive/OpenTTD/Comparison of OpenTTD and TTDPatch features]]
'''Here you have a small comparative between OpenTTD and TTDPatch Features'''

If you are a regular '''TTDPatch user''', you will notice that many similar things are implemented differently in OpenTTD. Not all features are [[en/Manual/Interoperability|compatible]] with [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/TTDPatch]]. 
*[[en/Manual/Interoperability|Quick savegame conversion guide]]

==TTDPatch features in OpenTTD==
These features work exactly the same as in TTDPatch. Some of them need to be activated in the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Configuring patches]].<br/>
{{en/Note|List is currently incomplete!}}
*[[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles]] / [[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles]] / rivers 
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Change station spread]]
*Longer stations / more platforms
*Ability to join stations (of same width or length)
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Mammoth trains]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Multiheaded trains]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build on slopes|build on slopes / coasts]]
*Go to depot orders
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Longer bridges]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Higher bridges]]
*[[en/Manual/Signals#pre-signals|Presignals]]
*[[en/Manual/Signals]]
*Advanced [[en/Archive/Manual/Non-stop]] orders
*[[en/Manual/Orders]]
*[[en/Manual/Orders]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Crossing tunnels]] cheat
*Plant many trees on a tile
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|Bribe]] the town authority
*No train servicing
*No inflation
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Full load any cargo]]
*Select goods option
*New starting date
*Change default servicing interval for vehicles
*Change max # of vehicles per player
*More currencies (including Euro introduction in 2002)
*Colorful newspaper after a certain date
*[[en/Manual/Base Set/Electrified railways|Electrified Rails]] (Extra type, compared to replacing types in TTDPatch. But 8 independent track types is WIP in TTDPatch.)
*Dual [[en/Archive/Manual/Company Colours]]
*New Sounds
*[[en/Archive/Manual/NewGRF Houses]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/NewGRF Industries]]
*Ability to sort vehicles list by different properties
*Sell entire train
* Enhanced bridge construction
* Gradual loading / unloading
* New cargo types
* [[en/Manual/Drive-through Road Stops]] (by mart3p)
* Trams and Tramsroad (in TTDX) ! See [[en/Manual/Tramways]]
* [[en/Manual/Landscaping]] (Change slope on non-empty tiles)
* Signal type selection GUI

==TTDPatch features currently not in OpenTTD==

{{en/Note|List is currently incomplete!}}

* [[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another PBS Patch|Path Based Signals (PBS)]] (WIP)
* Low memory version
* More airports per city
* Abandoned Roads (WIP)
* Catenary wires over third rail type
* Signals that will only let selected trains/train types through (Restrictive signalling)
* Signals that change red/green state depending on various map state (Programmable signalling)
* Signals that are only stopping locations from one side (Through signals)
* Direct construction of non-connected stations
* Non-straight and junction bridge heads
* Selection of which disasters may or may not happen (Plus some non-disasters: plane crashes and train/rv crashes)
* Automatic creation of [[en/Manual/Signals#pre-signals|presignal]] setups
* Configurable steam plumes for steam engines
* Independent acceleration model settings for all motive power
* ~25 different town growth controls

==Features that are significantly different in OpenTTD==
{{en/Note|List is currently incomplete}}
*[[en/Manual/Waypoints]].
*New AI (Stalled).
*Two new [[en/Manual/Bridges]] instead of raise Bridges speed limit.
*[[en/Drag and drop]] for most tools.
*[[en/Manual/Convert rail]] (from and to rail, monorail, maglev).
*[[en/Manual/Sell entire train]].
*New buttons in GUI instead of shortcuts.
*Drag and Drop signals (Auto-[[en/Manual/Signals]]).
*Configure most [[en/Community/Patches/Patches]] inside the game.
*[[en/Manual/Landscaping]] toolbar.
*Servicing intervals in percentage of max. reliability.
*More detailed performance ratings.
*[[en/Manual/Extra Viewport]].
*Ability to [[en/Manual/Move company HQ]].
*[[en/Manual/Cheats#magic-bulldozer|Magic bulldozer]] cheat to remove industries etc.
* [[en/Manual/Replace vehicles]] in OpenTTD uses manual selection. This differs from TTDPatch which uses automatic selection based on criteria supplied via newgrf.
* [[en/Clone Vehicle]] is available for all vehicle types in OpenTTD, but only trains in TTDPatch.
*Station tile/platform removal

==See also==
* [[en/Archive/Lists/Roadmap]] &mdash; The Roadmaps
* [[en/Archive/Community/Requested features]] &mdash; List of WIP Suggestions
* [[en/Recent and Current Developments]] &mdash; Recent features added in trunk and branches
* [[en/NewGRF TODO]] &mdash; A list of NewGRF WIP features for developers.
* [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Comparison of OpenTTD and TTDPatch features]] &mdash; Full List of features
* [[en/Archive/Community/Mini Integrated Nightly]] &mdash; The list of patch of the precedent nightly

== Comparison Chart (Not exhaustive) ==

{|border="1" align="center"
!Feature 
!style="padding:4px"|OpenTTD
!style="padding:4px"|TTDPatch
!Notes
|- 
|colspan="4" style="background:#ccc"| Construction
|-
| Halftile foundations
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| (Also known as anti- zig, zag foundations.)
|
|-
| [[en/Manual/Loading Bays#multistop|Multistop for road vehicles]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| 
|-
| Custom bridge heads
| style="background: yellow" |  WIP
| style="background: lime" |  Done
| was worked on by peter1138 [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=20211 TT Forums topic]
|-
| Enhanced bridge construction
| style="background: lime" |  Done
| style="background: red" |  Not done
|
|-
| Build track above tunnel entrances
| style="background: red" | Not done
| style="background: lime" | Done
| All Track directions allowed. Automatic track construction for depots also supported.
|-
|colspan="4" style="background:#ccc"| General
|-
| Working [[en/Manual/Multiplayer]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
|
|-
| [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Map size|Bigger maps]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| Possible, but would require tremendous amounts of work in the Patch.
|-
| Subsidiaries
| style="background: red" | Not done
| style="background: lime" | Done
| 
|-
|colspan="4" style="background:#ccc"| GUI
|-
| [[en/Manual/Extra Viewport]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
|
|-
| Player faces extended
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=34133 TT Forums topic]
|
|-
| [[en/Archive/Manual/Autorail]] tool
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| TTDPatch drags railway in any direction instead.
|-
| Drag railway in any direction
| style="background: red" | Not done
| style="background: lime" | Done
| OpenTTD uses autorail to drag in any direction
|-
| Measurement tool
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: red" | Not done
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24551&start=40 TT Forums topic]
|-
|colspan="4" style="background:#ccc"| NewGRF
|-
| Date-dependent track/road graphics (newroutes)
| style="background: red" | Not done
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
|
|-
| NewHouses
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: lime" | Done
|
|-
| NewCargo
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: lime" | Done
|
|-
| NewIndustries
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: lime" | Done
|
|-
|colspan="4" style="background:#ccc"| Vehicles
|-
| New [[en/Manual/Airports]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: yellow" |  WIP
| Being worked on as a new GRF feature by Csaboka.
|-
| [[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another PBS Patch]]
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
| style="background: lime" | Done
| 
|-
| New [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Pathfinder]]
| style="background: lime" | Done
| style="background: Yellow" |  WIP
| Being worked on by Eis_os
|-
| Routing restrictions at signals
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
| style="background: lime" |  Done
| The MiniIN restricts based on maximum speed, with global settings (fast/medium/slow). TTDPatch restricts based on one or more of power, weight, length, next order, maximum speed, and nearby signal status; combined with any combination of or, and, and xor; with per-signal settings.
|-
| Yellow signal state
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
| style="background: red" |  Not done
|
|-
| New signals
| style="background: red" | Not Done
| style="background: lime" | Done
|
|-
| New objects (eyecandy)
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
| style="background: yellow" | WIP
|
|}

[[Category:en/Development]]
[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]