[[Translation:en/Archive/OpenTTD/OpenTTD 0.4.8]]
{{en/Archive/OpenTTD/NaviPrevNext|prev=en/Archive/OpenTTD/OpenTTD 0.4.7|next=en/Archive/OpenTTD/OpenTTD 0.5.0|date=16 August 2006}}

Release revision: 5863

==New Features==
*Feature: Add Italian town names as we have an official Italian translation
*Feature: Add Turkish town names as we have an official Turkish translation
*Feature: Add a fully optional configure script that is a wrapper around the cumbersome makefile.config

==List of Bugfixes==
*Codechange: Verify the presence of music files in the gm/ folder. This should also solve some 100% CPU buildup for some users.
*Codechange: [NPF] Disable NPF totally for ships as it wholly kills performance (blathijs). Only for 0.4/ branch and 0.4.8.
*Fix: A ship in a depot must be stopped before it can be cloned.
*Fix: After changing directory in 'Play Scenario', the default scenarios didn't show up in 'New Game' 0.4.8-RC2 (2006-07-31)
*Fix: Certain combinations of trains crash when moved around inside the depot.
*Fix: Reversed arrow-sign in the multiplayer list column headers on sort by name
*Fix: Industry production change button doesn't work for oilrig passangers.
*Fix: Helicopters stopping in depot after autorenew/autoreplace
*Fix: MorphOS crashes when you go a level up in the root level
*Fix: UDP sockets were used even if network-availability was set to false
*Fix: Crash when trying to build a vehicle type that is set to a max of zero
*Fix: Redraw the screen when switching the signal side in the patches window
*Fix: It was possible to dig into a tunnel if certain rail combinations were ontop of it
*Fix: A HQ could only be flooded at its northern tile, the other 3 were immune to water
*Fix: Fix several glitches concerning foundations. Houses, property (rail/road/bridge/etc.) and cursor are now aligned properly
*Fix: Prohibit altering a road tile while road works are in progress. This fixes some glitches like "turning" the excavation by adding/removing road bits or removing the road piece
*Fix: Only advertise the server to your external IP/network (eg not to 127.0.0.1) and use proper broadcast addresses
*Fix: '-f' switch is not valid on windows, so don't show it in help
*Fix: [autoreplace] Autoreplaced trains can leave all wagons in depot under certain circumstances
*Fix: The wrong IP could get unbanned, e.g. 'unban 1.2.3.42' could result in unbanning 1.2.3.4
*Fix: It was possible to convert the railtype of a bridge while a train was on it
*Fix: It was possible to rename signs or waypoints with the chat box
*Fix: Be more strict what it means for an aircraft to be in a hangar: It's not just being stopped on a hangar tile
*Fix: If a road vehicle is on a road depot tile and stopped doesn't mean it's in the depot. Use the proper test for this
*Fix: [AI] The AI should send a plane into a hangar if it's not in a hangar _or_ not stopped, not when it's not in a hangar _and_ not stopped
*Fix: [AI] The trolly AI used information from the wrong industry when calculating the amount of to be transported goods
*Fix: [NTP] Fix NTP over bridges: don't check the rail type when on a bridge
*Fix: Truncate text in dropdown lists to stop text overflowing.
*Fix: "Erroneous train reversal on waypoints". When processing the next train order, do not even consider reversing the train if the last order was to a waypoint.
*Fix: Starting a new scenario did not adhere to local difficulty settings but took it from the scenario itself. That mode is for 'play scenario'
*Fix: Vehicles on a sloped tile under a bridge were affected by the bridge speed limit
*Fix: Issue with train pathfinding over level crossings.
*Fix: [AI] The AI no longer attempts to build signals under bridges.
*Fix: Refresh build vehicle window (if opened) when converting rail depot
*Fix: Crash when sorting an empty server list.
*Fix: The build-tree window button defaulted to a place-push-button on opening where no treetype is selected.
*Fix: Game crashes when cloning/autoreplace reaches train-limit
*Fix: [NTP] properly check for railtypes on non-plain-rail-tiles
*Fix: Trains could enter certain sloped rail tiles under bridges with incompatible rail type
*Fix: Ensure the map memory is cleared after it is allocated. This fixes random deserts that sometimes occurred.
*Fix: Some weird behaviour with tile selection near bridges
*Fix: Don't allow PF to enter train depot from the back (signal updates)
*Fix: Game no longer crashes when the last vehicle servicing a station has been deleted
*Fix: Reset the last built railtype when starting a new game
*Fix: Cloned vehicles get the same service interval as the original vehicle
*Fix: Game no longer errors out when "Many random towns" is selected in the scenario editor.
*Fix: Obscure road dragging bug. The road build command did not return the appropiate error message of invalid-slope when building road.
*Fix: Temperate bank will no longer appear (during game) in tropic landscape. This bug is from the original game.
*Fix: Specify the 'stopall' console command as a debug command.
*Fix: Fixed a problem that caused DeliverGoodsToIndustry to not work as intended
*Fix: Ships and aircraft can now be used as feeders as well
*Fix: When a multiheaded train is sold the pointers were not updated correctly causing sporadious crashes/disconnects.
*Fix: New plantations now cause the correct ".. being planted .." news item
*Fix: Danish town names were saved/loaded as Swiss
*Fix: Removing roads on crossings was done without a check for ownership
*Fix: [autoreplace] Fix drawing of train list for outdated engines
*Fix: Malicious clients/servers could crash the game
*Fix: [autoreplace] allow replacement of wagons even when the engine fails to be replaced
*Fix: Certain operations involving trains inside a depot could cause a crash
*Fix: [autoreplace] cost for refitting a new vehicle is added to the cost animation (player always paid for it, it just wasn't shown)
*Fix: [OSX] Save/Load issues solved for OSX 10.3.9 universal binaries
*Fix: Illegal servers in the master-server list could kick the client back to the main menu, effectively making Multiplayer impossible
*Fix: [NPF] Don't mark tiles when debugging in multiplayer, this will cause desyncs
*Fix: Several fixes to chatbox code, mainly plug a buffer overflow

==See also==
[[en/Archive/Lists/New Features Since 0.4.8]]