{{en/-}}
{{en/Archive/OpenTTD/Navigation}}
{{en/Archive/OpenTTD/NaviPrevNext|prev=en/Archive/OpenTTD/OpenTTD 1.4.4|next=en/Roadmap 1.5|date=2015-04-01}}

You can download this release from [http://www.openttd.org/en/download-stable/1.5.0 openttd.org].

==Major new features==
* More height levels
* [[en/NoGoal]] features
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] features
* GUI tweaks
* Bug fixes (inc. compilation on OS/2!)


==Changelog==

===1.5.0 (2015-04-01)===

* Fix: [NewGRF] Add Misc. GRF Feature Flag 6 to enable the second rocky tile set [FS#6260] (r27200)

===1.5.0-beta2 (2015-02-24)===

* Feature: [NoGo] Game scripts can point to a location, station, industry, or town when publishing news. (r27164)
* Feature: Allow changing max heightlevel in scenario editor. (r27151)
* Feature: Make use of both rocky tile sets from the base graphics. (r27117)
* Change: Scale (non-custom) default window sizes according to GUI zoom. (r27147)
* Change: Make statusbar and chat-entry window use the same width as the toolbar. (r27146)
* Change: The chatbox-width setting now uses percent of screen width instead of pixels. (r27144)
* Change: [NewGRF] Interpret negative positions in industry layouts depending on GRF version. (r27138)
* Fix: [SDL, Windows] Right-mouse-button scrolling scrolled/jumped too far, when OpenTTD lagged during mouse event processing. (r27167)
* Fix: Toolbars were not invalidated when changing max-vehicles settings. {{en/Flyspray|6204}} (r27163)
* Fix: Tile selection was drawn outside of map in some cases. {{en/Flyspray|6208}} (r27162)
* Fix: Reimplement the viewport drawing algorithm. {{en/Flyspray|6156}} {{en/Flyspray|6206}} (r27161)
* Fix: Issues with smallmap and viewport coordinates and transformations. (r27160, r27159, r27158)
* Fix: Mark bridge middle tiles dirty when building/removing/changing bridges. (r27157)
* Fix: Rounding and unit-conversion inconsistencies in calls to MarkAllViewportsDirty. (r27148)
* Fix: Oilrig empty-tile checks were incorrect due to wrong TileIndexDiff->TileIndexDiffC conversion. (r27137)
* Fix: Misalignment in generate world window in case of small fonts. (r27135)
* Fix: Dragging of free wagons in depot failed with GUI zoom. (r27133)
* Fix: Reduce memory footprint of map array by shuffling its members. {{en/Flyspray|6218}} (r27132, r27126)
* Fix: Dropdown- and tooltip-windows should not steal the focus. (r27131)
* Fix: [NewGRF] Action 7/9 condition 0A failed for present, but disabled, NewGRF. (r27119)
* Fix: Road vehicles could not reverse to be sent to depots when the following tile has the right type to run on, but could not be entered. {{en/Flyspray|6183}} (r27107)
* Fix: Use the actual max speed of the vehicle in front when determining if a RV can overtake. {{en/Flyspray|6176}} (r27106)
* Fix: grow_counter was not properly bounded by growth_rate, but by some other value used to calculate growth_rate. {{en/Flyspray|6195}} (r27105)
* Fix: [Script] Support 64 bits integers in ScriptLists. {{en/Flyspray|6194}} (r27104)
* Fix: [Script] Money values would end up wrong in strings when outside the bounds of a 32 bits integer. {{en/Flyspray|6194}} (r27102)

===1.5.0-beta1 (2014-12-24)===

* Feature: Support .txt.gz and -txt.xz changelog, readme and license files in basesets, NewGRFs, etc (r27035, r27034)
* Feature: More height levels {{en/Flyspray|4126}} (r27010)
* Feature: Latin translation (r26993)
* Feature: Add option to choose normal, double or quad-size interface (r26990)
* Feature: [Script] Swap method for script lists (r26894)
* Feature: [Script] ScriptStationList_Cargo for sorting cargo by from and via (r26893)
* Feature: [Script] API for retrieving planned flow (r26892)
* Feature: [CargoDist] Predict links for station-autorefitting vehicles (r26889)
* Feature: Setting for limiting the height of bridges (r26882)
* Feature: Make aircraft ascend/descend when they are too close to the ground or too far away (r26866)
* Feature: Allow hiding of non-interesting engines in the GUI (r26805, r26804)
* Feature: Vehicle sorting in autoreplace GUI {{en/Flyspray|1640}} (r26800)
* Feature: [NewGRF] Advanced visual effects with multiple effect sprites independent of spawning model (r26988, r26747)
* Feature: Warn about missing industries after generating a map (r26729)
* Feature: Upgrade currently active NewGRFs to newest installed version (r26613)
* Feature: Save and load grfid and md5sum of NewGRFs in config file (r26611)
* Feature: Select an editable preset name for saving (r26610)
* Feature: Cancel cargo delivery from industries/houses to stations after about 21 months of not having picked up any of the cargo (r26582)
* Feature: Give a warning when a plane's orders tell it to use a runway which is too short for it {{en/Flyspray|6009}} (r26566)
* Feature: [Script] Extended API for CargoDist (r26557)
* Feature: Show measured order times in timetable GUI also when not timetabled (r26550)
* Feature: Prompt for confirmation when deleting a vehicle group (r26455)
* Feature: Hierarchical vehicle subgroups (r26450)
* Feature: Allow more sound sleep for dedicated servers when there's nothing to do and nobody paying attention (r26449)
* Feature: [NewGRF] Add vehicle modflag 1 (unloading in progress) (r26430)
* Change: Improvements to the man page (r27091, r27012)
* Change: Allow to set the granularity of the tooltip hover time in milliseconds instead of seconds. New default value is 250ms (r26815)
* Change: Follow SI recommendation about spaces between numbers and units {{en/Flyspray|6086}} (r26733)
* Change: [CargoDist] Save locations instead of distances in link graphs to reduce size (r26646)
* Change: [Squirrel] Make the internal integer for scripts always 64 bits, so scripts behave the same on 32 and 64 bit architectures and money can be represented properly (r26585, r26584)
* Change: Reshuffle advanced settings tree (r26614, r26536)
* Change: Add backend-independent config-file setting to disable 8bpp video modes, and disable 8bpp by default (r26522)
* Fix: [OS/2] Compile again {{en/Flyspray|6186}} (r27092)
* Fix: Compilation with freetype2 version 2.5.4 and newer {{en/Flyspray|6185}} (r27079)
* Fix: Variable 47 used the carge translation table of the wrong GRF in case of callback 1D {{en/Flyspray|6182}} (r27075)
* Fix: Some lists did not use natural string sorting {{en/Flyspray|6172}} (r27063)
* Fix: Mercurial version detection failed if personal presets were configured (r27059)
* Fix: [OSX] Don't require double-press from non-dead console hotkeys {{en/Flyspray|5812}} (r27046)
* Fix: Crash when having the vehicle list opened from a buoy or oil rig when the buoy/oil rig is removed (r27030)
* Fix: Unit number was not always fully shown in depots {{en/Flyspray|6102}} (r27014)
* Fix: [CargoDist] Reserve cargo only after unloading finished or if the vehicle has the desired cargo already {{en/Flyspray|6110}} (r26918)
* Fix: [Squirrel] Loading a value saved as boolean caused it to be of type integer instead of boolean (r26785)
* Fix: [Squirrel] Harden string handling (r26777)
* Fix: [OSX] Implement more of the text editing API to prevent crashes and improve IME support {{en/Flyspray|5972}} (r26758)
* Fix: Incorrect saving of order backups {{en/Flyspray|6066}} (r26700)
* Fix: Ordering a vehicle to a competitor's rail waypoint displayed an error message. Ignore the click as is done for the other order types to competitor's stuff {{en/Flyspray|6059}} (r26692)
* Fix: [Script] Loading/parsing of info .nuts was done in the same VM, causing e.g. constants to break the loading of info of other scripts {{en/Flyspray|5973}} (r26617)
* Fix: [CargoDist] Improve estimation of link capacitites (r26549)
* Remove: A bunch of archaic settings from the GUI (r26528, r26526, r26525)

==See Also==
* {{en/Forum|topic=72663|Forum topic for 1.5.0-beta2}}
* {{en/OTTDNewsArticle|215|The 1.5.0-beta2 news article}}
* {{en/Forum|topic=72157|Forum topic for 1.5.0-beta1}}
* {{en/OTTDNewsArticle|213|The 1.5.0-beta1 news article}}