[[Translation:en/Development/Debugging]]
[[Category:en/Development]]

==Debugging/Troubleshooting==
If you want to actively contribute to the development of [[en/Manual/Main Page]], you will need to debug your patch. Use your favourite debugger for debugging. In addition to that, OpenTTD has some debugger options that might help you.<br />
If you just downloaded the game and something does not work, you also might to run the game with debugging enabled.

==Debug Options==
Starting the game with ''"-d 1"'' will enable global debug level '1'. All debug messages with a ''severity'' of 1 will be shown. Use the following syntax in a command line window:
<pre>user@home\> openttd -d 1</pre>
In addition to that, you can only show debug messages for certain areas of the game. Currently there are 3 such items:
{|
| '''NAME''' || '''EXPLANATION''' || '''SEVERITY'''
|-
| '''misc''' || Will show messages for miscellaneous events. This includes loading of sound, video, or resorting of various items or general warning messages || 1, 2
|-
| '''spritecache''' || Will show the processing of sprites || 1, 2 and 9 
|-
| '''grf''' || Will show [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] messages, such as their copyright info (1) and notices if some parts failed to load, were loaded incorrectly, or are not yet supported (2) || 1, 2
|}

You can combine any of these to get only their desired lvl. For example misc 1 and grf 1:
<pre>user@home\> openttd -d misc=1 grf=1</pre>

Debug messages with ''lvl 0'' will always be shown, unless you remove these debugs. To strip the executable of any debug messages, compile with the flag:
<pre>NO_DEBUG_MESSAGES</pre>