[[Translation:en/Development/GUI Style Guide]]
{{en/Incomplete}}

Having a consistent look and feel for the user interface is important.
This page documents how the program should present itself to the user, and how it should respond to user inter action.

== Window layout ==
A window should have a title bar. The title bar displays a text stating the contents of the window. It can also be used to drag the window to a different position at the screen.

At the top left, a closebox should exist to allow the user to close the window (a notable exception is the window in the intro screen). Preferably, that button should also be the only way to remove the window. If unsaved changes exist when the user closes the window, he should be made aware, so he can take appropriate action.

== Window colours ==
The colour of the window indicates the kind of information that is displayed and manipulated with it.


== Mouse actions ==
A user should be able to do as much as possible with just a single left mouse click. For lists, such a click means selection of an item in the list.
For buttons, a click means executing the action attached to the button. For related actions that also occur often, the combination of holding down the CTRL button and clicking with the left mouse button may trigger the related action.
However, such a click should only be used as a short-cut. Not all users know that you can use the CTRL key, and such a user should be able to perform the same action without using the CTRL key, in some way.

A double left click is useful to execute an action with a selected item in a list. As with the CTRL key, not all users may understand that double clicking is possible, so it is preferable to also have an other means (for example a button) to achieve the same action (eg by pressing a button).

Pressing (and optionally holding down) the right mouse button should pop up a help text about the part of the window that the mouse pointer is. If the part has special interaction possibilities, such as double clicking or use of the CTRL key, it should be mentioned in the help text.

{{en/Todo|Define mouse dragging}}
{{en/Todo|Define mouse wheel behaviour}}

== Keyboard actions ==
The ''back space'' key closes all unstickied windows.