[[Translation:en/Development/IRC channel]]

OpenTTD has its own IRC channel where you can hang out and talk about OpenTTD. If you don't know what IRC is, or need help to setup your client, checkout [http://www.irchelp.org/ irchelp.org].

* Server: <pre>irc://irc.oftc.net</pre>
* Channel: <pre>#openttd</pre>

Like many IRC channels, #OpenTTD ranges from very busy to complete tumbleweed.  It depends on the time of day, day of week, and varies by season.  Most active discussion as of 2017 is in European time.  

Top tips for #OpenTTD
# "Don't ask to ask" - just say hi and state your question directly.
# You may not get a reply - no-one's being rude, they're just not reading the channel, or they can't answer your question.  Hang out in the channel and/or try later if it's a good question.
# Regular users in the channel may disagree with each, strongly.  This can be confusing.  Knowing this in advance may help have a good discussion.

==IRC Logs==
*[http://weblogs.openttd.org/openttd/ openttd.org IRC logs]
*[http://webster.openttdcoop.org/index.php?channel=openttd IRC Logs at openttdcoop (seems unreliable 2022-09-22)]
*[http://irclogs.qmsk.net/channels/openttd IRC Logs at qmsk, retired at 2016-09-10]
*[http://thegrebs.com/irc/ From April 2007 1st to June 2010 30th at The Grebs]

==IRC Stats==
*[http://electricpotential.net/ircstats/openttd2.html Stats for #openttd]
*[http://alpha.visl.sdu.dk/~tino/pisg/OFTC/openttd.html TinoDidriksen's stats]

==External links==

[irc://irc.oftc.net/openttd OpenTTD IRC channel]

[http://webchat.oftc.net/?randomnick=1&channels=openttd&prompt=1 OpenTTD OFTC IRC Web Chat]