[[Translation:en/Development/Manual of style]]
{{en/Incomplete}}


{{en/Development/Navigation}}
Welcome to the OpenTTD Manual of Style. This document keeps the rules for all English in-game text (for both of UK and US variants). This manual was first started with the goal of improving the text of the UI tooltips, as to help making localization to different languages easier. This quickly evolved into a full documentation project to unify in-game, written-text rules, fix inconsistencies, and improve readability.

The OpenTTD Manual of Style is modelled after the Microsoft Writing Style Guide. Additional formatting unique to OpenTTD was sourced from community preferences or was taken from text already present in the original UI.


== Scope ==
* Apply these rules only for text to be displayed in-game that is included in the OpenTTD core package. 
* Code, images or any separate documentation included in the OpenTTD package will not follow the rules of this manual. If you wish to learn how to format code, please consult the OpenTTD [[en/Development/Coding style]] guide available at the wiki. 
* Text belonging to mods obtained through the in-game content downloader or anywhere else is not covered by this guide. It is however recommended for modders to follow these rules while creating new content as to keep consistency with the original texts.
* Text belonging to external readme files displayed on the in-game reader tool also falls out of the scope of this guide.

== Language style ==
* The language style used in OpenTTD will be simple and precise. 
* In-game text will favor small paragraphs and short sentences as to better convey information to all levels of English speakers.
* OpenTTD is a game about transportation networks like those of real-life societies, so technical vocabulary will be present, but not used in excess. 
* Jargon and slang will not be used at all. 
* The intention is to create textual content that is simple and relaxing to read, but also capable of easily passing complex information to anyone playing the game.

== Bias-free communication ==

Because OpenTTD is played by many people across the globe, the language employed must be as inclusive as possible. Here are the key guidelines for bias-free communication.

* Avoid gendered pronouns like he or she.
* Always try to use sentence structures that address players as "you".

:{|
|-
| ''Correct'' || <span style="color:green;">You can host a game via the multiplayer screen</span>
|-
| ''Incorrect'' || <span style="color:brown;">A user can host a game via the multiplayer screen</span>
|}

* Use gender-neutral alternatives for common terms. Some examples below.

:{|
!Use this!!Not this
|-
|chair||chairman
|-
|workforce, staff||manpower
|-
|operates||mans
|}

* Avoid references to sensitive political topics and mentioning geographical locations that are disputed.
* Do not use slang or profane/offensive language.
* When addressing players with disabilities avoid language that might appear patronizing such "suffering from" or "affected by".

== Descriptive texts and UI elements ==
The OpenTTD UI is populated with text in two main formats with unique rules of their own: descriptive texts and UI elements. 

=== Descriptive texts === 
* Texts used to describe or provide in-depth information about a particular function, situation or concept of the game. 
* Examples of descriptive texts are tooltips, newspaper messages, instructions or contextual tips and queries within the game.
* Descriptive texts will make use of one or more full sentences, which start with a capital letter on the first word and end in a period or an end-of-sentence mark.

'''Examples:'''
[http://www.example.com link title]

=== UI elements ===
* UI text that is used to simply name a particular function or field. 
* Mostly employed for naming parts of the UI such as buttons, window frames, and table fields.
* UI elements will generally not form full sentences and never end with a period. They may sometimes end with a colon if introducing a dynamic field such as a number. 
* UI elements should not be confused with tooltip titles; even if they look similar when used alone, tooltip titles are in practice descriptive texts.

'''Examples:'''
''New game''
''Maximum loan:''

== Acronyms ==
Using acronyms is often a popular choice for making texts easier to read or for saving space in the UI. Some acronyms are widely understood and sometimes preferred over the terms they represent, but others may cause confusion to people who aren't familiarized with them. Keep in mind the following guidelines when using acronyms:

* By default, write acronyms in all uppercase

:{|
|-
| ''Correct'' || <span style="color:green;">If you have any doubts check our FAQ</span>
|-
| ''Incorrect'' || <span style="color:brown;">If you have any doubts check our Faq</span>
|}

* Don't create new acronyms by yourself. If you feel a certain term should be made into a new acronym, consult with other developers first.
* In descriptive texts, spell-out unfamiliar technical acronyms when used the first time along with the acronym in brackets.

:{|
|-
| ''Correct'' || <span style="color:green;">The Dash is a diesel multiple unit (DMU) available since 1984</span>
|-
| ''Incorrect'' || <span style="color:brown;">The Dash is a DMU available since 1984</span>
|}

* In descriptive texts, well-recognized acronyms such as FAQ and UI and can be introduced without being spelled out.
* If you're in doubt if an acronym is widely recognized, you can check the American Heritage Dictionary to see if it's included in the list of common acronyms.
* If an acronym is spelled in a mix of upper and lowercase for style reasons (such as BaNaNaS) check if this is the most common way of writing the acronym before doing so. 
* Do not stylize existing acronyms on your own. 
* For acronyms that have been assimilated into the english language (such as laser), write them entirely in lowercase as they are to be treated as common nouns.
* Use lowercase on spelled-out acronyms unless it's a proper noun or a protocol.

== Capitalization ==
=== General capitalization rules ===
Follow these base guidelines when capitalizing texts:
* Use sentence capitalization by default on both descriptive texts and UI elements.
* Always capitalize the first word of a new sentence, phrase or label. Rewrite the ones that start with a word that's mandatorily lowercase (such as a stylized acronym).
* Don't use all uppercase for emphasis on words (such as THIS). Use italic instead.
* Don't use internal word capitalization (such as frameSkip or e-Mail) unless it's an acronym, a proper noun, or a product name.
* Don't capitalize spelled-out acronyms unless it's a proper noun ("The EMU (electric multiple unit) is a type of train").

=== Capitalization styles ===
There are two types of capitalization used in interface texts for OpenTTD.

Sentence capitalization:
* Always capitalize the first word, whether the text is a phrase, sentence, heading or label.
* Always capitalize proper nouns.
* Always capitalize the first word of titles.
* Every other remaining words should be written entirely in lower case save for instances covered by different capitalization rules.

Title capitalization:
* Always capitalize first and last words of a phrase or sentence, heading or label.
* Do not capitalize articles, prepositions or conjunctions unless they are the first or last words of a phrase or sentence.
* Capitalize all other words in a phrase, sentence, heading or label, including verbs, nouns, adverbs, adjectives, and pronouns.
* If words are joined by a hyphen capitalize them as if they were separated by a regular space.

Use sentence capitalization in:
* General descriptive text.
* General UI element text.
* Headings.
* Field text (i.e "Income this year:...").
* Tooltips.
* Window titles.

Use title capitalization in:
* Resource names and energy types (Coal, Iron Ore, Steam, Diesel).
* Product/Vehicle names.
* Country/Nationality/Coin names.
* Geographical locations and structure names.
* App within App names (Jazz Jukebox, Scenario Editor)(including text in buttons).
* Company names.
* Given names and ranks (i.e. Chief Executive Officer).
* Keyboard shortcuts (i.e. "Ctrl+Click+Drag").

== Formatting ==

=== Descriptive texts ===
==== General descriptive text formatting ====
* Use sentence style capitalization by default.
* Use center alignment in tooltips, news, messages and information windows.
* Use left alignment in everything else.

==== Headings ====
Headings are used to name documents and to separate them into sections. They are a form of internal organization in written text. Follow these guidelines when formatting headings:
* Use sentence capitalization.
* Never end headings with a period-
* It is possible to end an heading with a question mark or an exclamation point for emphasis.

==== Titles ====
Titles refer to names of individual works (books, songs, apps, articles, etc). Follow these guidelines when formatting titles appearing in-game:
* Apps - use title capitalization (Jazz Jukebox, OpenTTD Scenario Editor)
* Documents or books - use title capitalization (OpenTTD Manual of Style)
* References of chapters or sections - if a chapter name is referred to in descriptive texts, use sentence capitalization and enclose chapter name in quotation marks ("See Section 9 "Numbers"")
* Song names - use title capitalization ("Playing song 1 - Taxi Ride")

==== Tooltips ====
Tooltips are texts printed in small pop-up windows that appear when you hover the mouse cursor over certain UI functions. They are a large part of the OpenTTD descriptive texts. Tooltips can be composed by one or more of three possible parts:
1 - Title - the name of function or tool
2 - Description - a short explanation of the function or tool
3 - Additional shortcuts - Text informing of additional functions unlocked by key combinations ("Ctrl+Click+Drag selects an area")

The following general formatting rules are applied to tooltips:
* Depending on the contents present, the tooltip text will always follow this order - title, description, additional shortcuts.
* A title will always be separated by a colon and a paragraph break if followed by a description or additional shortcuts.
* Do not insert any other paragraph breaks aside from the one separating the title.
* The last sentence or phrase in a tooltip will never end in a period or any type of end-of-sentence punctuation.
* A tooltip without a title must always contain a description. It can never have additional shortcuts alone.

Buttons with icons tooltips
If a tooltip is associated with an icon button the following rules apply:
* Icon button tooltips must always have a title.

Buttons with text tooltips
If a tooltip is associated with a text button the following rules apply:
* Text button tooltips must never have a title, as it is already written on the button itself
* Text button tooltips must always have a description.

Table tooltips
If a tooltip is associated with a table the following rules apply:
* If a table has a heading the associated tooltip must have no title. If a window only contains a single table, the window title counts as a heading.
* If a table doesn't have a headng the associated tooltip must always have a title.


=== UI elements ===
==== General UI element formatting ====
* Use center alignment in normal buttons and window titles.
* Use left alignment for buttons that generate a dropdown selection.
* Use left alignment for all other UI elements.

=== Numbers ===
==== General formatting rules for numbers ====
Follow these base guidelines when writing numbers:
* In descriptive texts, never start a sentence with a numeral, unless they are items in a dropdown list.
* In descriptive texts always spell out numbers from one to nine, unless the number is part of a proper noun (such as a company name).
* Should a text refer to a list or a category of items of which one requires a numeral, write the remainder in numerals as well, even if they are below ten ("I see 15 trains, followed by 5 trains, followed by 1 train")

==== Numerals ====
Use numerals (not spelled out) in the following instances:
* Measurement units, dimensions, and mathematical formulas.
* References to keys or in-game values/amounts ("5 units of coal", "Press key 4").
* Percentages ("It takes 5% of the total value").
* Numbered sections such as pages and chapters ("Page 5, Chapter 1").

==== Ordinals ====
* By default, always spell out ordinal numbers (so always "first" instead of "1st").
* If referring to dates never spell out ordinals (so always March the 3rd, and 20th century).

== Writing ==

General writing tips
* Use simple terms and privilege simple and short sentences.
* Be accurate and precise. Pick words that are easy to understand and describe exactly what you need.
* Don't use complex jargon.
* Don't use slang or profane language.

Tooltips
* In a tooltip description don't use phrases that point to the activation of the tool itself such as "press this button to", "use this setting for" or "this tool does". This is only possible in additional shorcuts ("Ctrl+Click+Drag selects an area.").
* In a tooltip description do not repeat information that is already present on the title or the button text. If you can't avoid redundancy, rephrase or detail the description so it reads differently ("Build canals: Places a navigable waterway on flat land."). 
* If a tooltip title describes a tool by itself, do not write a description.
* In a tooltip description, always describe functions in the present tense, using impersonal 3rd person form without using pronouns ("Build road section: Places a section of road in a single direction").
* In a tooltip title don't use the word "and". Replace it with an ampersand (&).
* When writing additional shorcuts, always use one sentence per function ("Ctrl+Click+Drag selects an area. Shift+Click shows price preview.").

UI elements
* Always try to write UI elements text using as little words as possible.
* Don't use the word "and". Replace it with an ampersand (&).
* Don't repeat information that's already on a title or better detailed on a tooltip.