[[Translation:en/Archive/Source/OpenTTDDevBlackBook/IConsole/AddFunctions]]
=HOWTO - Add Functions/Commands to the Console=
==the first step==
the first thing you ll need if you want to do anything within the console is
<pre>
include "console.h"
</pre>
this gives you the ability to access all IConsole functions and structures you will have to use if you are intending to add Commands/Functions/Variables to the Console.

==creating the commands c++ function==
<pre>
static _iconsole_var * MyLittleConsoleFunction(byte argc, byte* argv[], byte argt[]) {
	if (argc<2) return NULL;
	// i am a dummy :D
	return NULL;
}
</pre>
{|
| parameter || meaning
|-
| argc || the count of parameters the parser overloaded to the function
|-
| argv || the parameters itself
|-
| argt || the parameters types (ICONSOLE_VAR_UNKNOWN, ICONSOLE_VAR_BYTE, ICONSOLE_VAR_STRING, ...)
|-
|}
parameters passed directly from out of the console have the type ICONSOLE_VAR_UNKNOWN by default. ICONSOLE_VAR_UNKNOWN is an string but it could contain an integer or something like that. it depends on what way the c++ function is handling it. if someone has used something like this:
<pre>
]printf "%i" *temp_uint_16
31291
</pre>
the first parameter is passed as ICONSOLE_VAR_UNKNOWN and the second one is passed as ICONSOLE_VAR_UINT16. only variables which were passed to the commands have the ability to be in an other type as ICONSOLE_VAR_UNKNOWN.

==using variable references==
if someone has passed a variable by its reference:
<pre>
]dosomething @*temp_uint_16
did something with temp_uint_16
</pre>
the type of this first parameter will be ICONSOLE_VAR_REFERENCE.
example how to write dosomething command:
<pre>
static _iconsole_var * IConsoleStdLibRandom(byte argc, byte* argv[], byte argt[]) {
if (argt[1]==ICONSOLE_VAR_REFERENCE) {
    _iconsole_var * item;
    item = (_iconsole_var *) argv[1];
    IConsolePrintF("did something with %s",item->name);
    }
return NULL;
}
</pre>

==returning a value within your function==
<pre>
static _iconsole_var * IConsoleStdLibRandom(byte argc, byte* argv[], byte argt[]) {
_iconsole_var * result;
result = IConsoleVarAlloc(ICONSOLE_VAR_UINT16);
IConsoleVarSetValue(result,rand());
return result;
}
</pre>
<pre>_iconsole_var * IConsoleVarAlloc(byte type);</pre>
used to allocate some memory for an _iconsole_var structure.
<pre>void IConsoleVarSetValue(_iconsole_var * var, int value);</pre>
used to easyly set a value of an _iconsole_var structure
<pre>void IConsoleVarSetString(_iconsole_var * var, byte * string);</pre>
IConsoleVarSetString is used to assign a string to the value

==registering the command==
somewhere in your code you should add a line like this ... this should be done during the initalization of openttd: [review the first example]
<pre>
IConsoleCmdRegister("mylittlefunction",MyLittleConsoleFunction);
</pre>
this registers your command as an console command named mylittlefunction. you also can add one c++ function with different console command names... just give it a try...
if everything went fine you should see the following:
<pre>
]list_cmds
echo
echof
printf
mylittlefunction
</pre>