[[Translation:en/Manual/FAQ multiplayer]]



'''Pitanja vazana za multiplejer aspekt OpenTTD''', kao što su spajanje sa serverom, kreiranje servera, igranje...  

__FORCETOC__


=====Koliko igrača može igrati OpenTTD u multiplejeru?=====
:* Do 255 igarača može učestvovati u multiplejeru. Međutim, u jenoj igri može biti osnovano samo 15 kompanija. Svaki igrač može da igra sa sopstvenom komapanijom, da se pridruži tuđoj kompaniji ([[sr/Kooperativni multiplejer|kooperativni multiplejer]]) ili da gleda partiju ([[sr/Posmatrački mod|posmatrački mod]]).

=====Kako da pokrenem multiplejer?=====
:* Možete da ga pokrenete ili preko [[sr/Multiplejer prozor|multiplejer prozora]] ili koristeći sledeću sintaksu u komandnoj liniji:
<pre>openttd -n IP[:port][#CompanyID]</pre>
Primer:
<pre>openttd -n 192.168.0.1:3979#1</pre> će Vas povezati na adresu 192.168.0.1 na portu 3979 i pridružiti kompaniji broj 1.

=====Da li multiplejer radi na različitim platformama?=====
:* Da. Možete, na primer, pokrenuti server na MekOS kome se mogu pridružiti igrači koji koriste Vindovs, Linuks ili neki drugi sistem.

=====Koji port koristi OpenTTD?=====
:* Podrazumevani port jet 3979, ali možete da promeniti na bilo koji kada pokrenete server. Ako koristite sopstveni server iza rutera, potrebno je da forvardujete TCP i UDP na tom portu. 
:* Komunikacija master-server ide putem porta 3979 preko UDP (dolazno + odlazno) i 3978 preko UDP (odlazno)
:* Ako se priključujete serveru ne treba da forvardujete portove, jer je veza samo odlazna.

=====Da li mogu da koristim Namenski server da bi organizovao multiplejer igru?=====
:* Moguće je pokrenuti namenski server koristeći '-D' prekidač. Pročitajte [[sr/Namenski server|namenski server]] za više detalja.

=====How much bandwidth does the game use?=====
:* The rate is approximately 1.2 kbyte/sec upload and 1.2 kbyte/sec download per client.  Multiplying that up, a 10-player server will use approximately 12 kbyte/sec up and 12 kbyte/sec down (the exact numbers will depend on the number of retransmissions etc.).  Therefore, a 10-player, 24/7 server will consume 60 Gbyte/per month (30 Gbyte down AND 30 Gbyte upload) of bandwidth if all 10 players are connected the whole month. For one client, connecting to a server, for an hour game, it will consume around 8MB bandwidth, plus whatever you need to download.

=====People get disconnected while joining, how to fix that?=====
When a new player connects, he needs to download the entire map. If you disabled ''pause_on_join'', the game continues meanwhile. By the time he has finished, he thus needs to catch up with the changes made since the start of the download.
Obviously, a new player needs to have a fast enough connection (and machine), otherwise he will take forever to catch up.

To give you control over how long this may take, the folloing variables can be set:
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:left"
|+Timing variables for network-play
|-
! Variable !! Values !! Meaning
|-
| max_join_time || 0-65535 || Maximum amount of time, in game ticks, a client may take to sync up during joining.
|-
| pause_on_join || true/false || Pause the game when people join.
|-
| max_download_time || 0-65535 || Maximum amount of time, in game ticks, a client may take to download the map.
|-
| max_lag_time || 0-65535 || Maximum amount of time, in game ticks, a client may be lagging behind the server.
|}
Note that all values are in game ticks, that is, 1/74th of a game day (1/30th of a second).

Increase the values until your users can connect normally. If you set them too long however, there is an increased danger that people take too long to connect, and just waste bandwidth.

For larger maps, it is highly recommended to enable the ''pause_on_join'', as it eliminates the need to catch-up with the game after map downloading.

=====I am having trouble with cheating. Help!=====
:* There is a guide to shielding yourself from the worst elements of [[en/Community/Multiplayer cheating]]. Also, check the [[en/Community/Play Style/Multiplayer Rules]].

=====Are there any rules?=====
:* There are some rules, yes. You can see the article [[en/Community/Play Style/Multiplayer Rules]]. However, the servers are not run by the OpenTTD Team, and they have no control over them what-so-ever. As such if you have any problems you should contact the person who runs the server.

=====Can console commands be executed automatically?=====
:* Yes, this is possible, and can be pretty handy. The page [[en/Manual/Running Startup Scripts]] will explain this in more detail.

=====I started a new server. However, my game doesn't show up in my friends' game list, even after inserting the server manually on the list. Why does this happen?=====
:* There seems to be a problem when starting a new server from a computer connected to Internet via a router, you can fix this by forwarding port number 3979, both UDP and TCP.

=====What is a desync error?=====
:* See [[en/Manual/Multiplayer#desync-error|Desync error]].

=====My NewGRFs are not appearing at my server=====
Best approach is to use a normal desktop game to construct a configuration file, and then copy that file with the NewGRFs to your server.
Some things to watch out for:

:* Don't copy the config file while the server is running (OpenTTD writes its config file on exit by default, overwriting the just copied file).
:* Fix the paths of the NewGRFs, \ is not a directory separator at a Unix system.

[[Category:sr/Najčešća pitanja]]
[[Category:sr/Igranje]]
[[Category:sr/Multiplejer]]