[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Building]]
{{ru/Перевод|en/Archive/Manual/Building|50}}

В OpenTTD, '''Здания''' это то, из чего состоят города. Здания это основное место, где подбираются и куда доставляются [[ru/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Пассажиры|пассажиры]], и единственное место, которое принимает [[ru/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Товары|товары]]. Набор зданий по умолчанию не содержит очень высоких зданий; это для того, чтобы игроки наверняка могли видеть то, что за ними. Здания можно разделить на две основные категории: жилые и коммерческие.

По мере того, как игра проходит через эпохи, то же происходит и со зданиями, когда они развиваются от кирпичных зданий начала 20 века до современных или пост-модерновых бетонных и стеклянных небоскрёбов.

==Жилые здания==
Residential buildings range from small houses to a large block of flats. While smaller houses provide smaller amount of passengers and mail, larger blocks will provide more, and they will also accept goods.

There are a few buildings, like churches and football fields, that do not accept or provide mail, only passengers.

==Коммерческие здания==
Commercial buildings generally accept passengers, mail and goods, and provide large amount of passengers and mail. They only start appearing when the town's population is at least 500, and stations generally need at least 3 of them in their coverage area for it to accept goods.

The Warehouse is an exception - it only accepts goods and doesn't produce anything.

[[Category:ru/Manual/Оглавление]]