[[Translation:en/Manual/AI settings]]
Mar02    Hi Craig,Thanks for reading the ietinverw. I'm not sure what publications that you are reading that offer more incisive analysis of the music other than JazzWise, Down Beat, JazzTimes and Down Beat. I'm quite they're out there. But please enlighten us. As for  intellectual rigor,  please define what that means to you. As a journalist, my job is to tell a story. In the mainstream please, that task is to write a story, hopefully with a captivating narrative that would enlighten both the jazz expert and novice on any given topic or musician. If you're defining  intellectual rigor  as writing a lot about music theory and throwing around a lot of music terminology then you're correct; I don't do it too often. The reason why is that I often compare jazz to sausage. Many people love eating sausage, but most people aren't interested in the  ins and outs  of how it's actually made. In fact, it might even turn them off. Regarding the dearth of black jazz critics. One can do an entire thesis paper on that subject. And even better, the dearth of black music critics and/or black journalists working in the mainstream media. That's why organizations such as the National Black Journalists Association is so vital. I wasn't asked for solutions. I answered the questions based upon my observation and experiences. But if you indeed have that more analysis and solutions regarding the dearth of black journalists, please share them. We all could use your help.Cheers,j.