{{en/Development/Script/Navigation}}

= Adding Doxygen documentation to your AI library =

AI Libraries can add Doxygen documentation of their API's. This will make it easier for users of your library to figure out how to use it.

Libraries hosted on OpenTTDcoop can request automatic Doxygen documentation generation. In case you host your library somewhere else you will have to figure out the generation yourself.

To be able to generate Doxygen documentation from Squirrel scripts yourself you need to use the [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/squirrel2doxygen Doxygen Squirrel Filter] and set that as the filter in Doxygen. Note that this filter requires python to be available on your system. It has been tested with python 2.7.

= A short introduction to writing Doxygen documentation =
For detailed documentation about using Doxygen and writing Doxygen documentation you should study the [http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/manual/index.html official Doxygen documentation].

Doxygen documentation is added inside comments that start with either <code>/**</code> or <code>///</code>.
Following that usually one or more sentences describing the function or variable is added.
For functions you can add descriptions of a function parameter by adding <code>@param</code> followed by a description. The return value can be described by adding <code>@return</code> followed by a description.

An example:    
<code>
 /// This is our library class Abc.
 class Abc {
   AVariable = 1;  ///< Doxygen documentation behind the subject on the same line.
   /**
    * Add two variables and returns the sum.
    * @param a The first value.
    * @param b The second value.
    * @return Returns the sum as an integer value.
    */
   function Add(a, b) {return a + b;}
 }
</code>

=== Grouping functions together ===
Sometimes you may want to group several functions or variables together with a common description. To start a named group use the @name tag followed by a description. Then before the group of functions starts you add <code>@{</code> and at the end of the group you add <code>@}</code> (of course always inside a Doxygen recognizable comment).

An example:
<code>
 /** @name Data encoding/decoding
  * These two functions can be used to encode a integer value in a string.
  * if encode_chars is null, it defaults to a 84-base characterset which
  * has been designed to produce smilies for low values. 
  */
 /// @{
 /** 
  * @param int_val integer value to encode
  * @param str_len minimum string length. The first character in the set
  * of characters to use will be used as 'zero' to fill out the string.
  * @param encode_chars a string with the characters to use as symbols. To
  * get a standard 10-base result use "0123456789". If you omit this parameter
  * or pass null, a 84-base character set will be used. The characters has
  * been ordered such that it will produce smilies for low numbers.
  * @ return a string
  */
 static function EncodeIntegerInStr(int_val, str_len, encode_chars = null);
 /**
  * @param str string to decode
  * @param encode_chars same usage and rules as for the encode_chars 
  * parameter to EncodeIntegerInStr. You must pass the same value as
  * encode_chars to EncodeIntegerInStr and DecodeIntegerFromStr to
  * be able to decode your string correctly.
  * @return a integer value
  */
 static function DecodeIntegerFromStr(str, encode_chars = null);
 /// @}
</code>

=== Hiding private functions and variables ===
You may want to use private functions or variables inside a class that users of your library are not supposed to use.
There are three ways to mark something as private.
* The Squirrel filter will automatically mark any function, variable or enum inside a class that starts with an underscore as private.
* Use the doxygen commands <code>@private</code> or <code>@privatesection</code>. Note that <code>@private</code> only marks one item as private and <code>@privatesection</code> will mark anything as private until Doxygen encounters a <code>@publicesection</code> command.
* Use doxygen conditional defines that start with <code>@cond ConditionalName</code> and ends with <code>@endcond</code>.

An example:
<code>
 /** Class Test is a Squirrel class to test our doxygen filter. */
 class Test extends AIController {
   _class_private_var = null; ///< Variable marked private by our doxygen filter because it starts with an underscore.
   doxygen_private = -1;      ///< @private Using doxygen command to make 1 class item private.
 
   /// @privatesection
   /** This section should stay private. We use the doxygen private section command. */
   function Private1() {}
   /** Second private function that should not be visible. */
   function Private2() {}
   function Third() {}
 
   /// @publicsection
   /** Part of a public section that should be visible with doxygen. */
   function ThisShouldBePublic() {}
 
 }
</code>