[[Translation:en/Development/Script/Last Error]]
OpenTTD is a realtime game, so no program can predict whether a certain planned action will fail or succeed until it has been executed. When letting AIs build bridges, vehicles, reroute aircraft chances are some of these commands will fail due to some reason or another. Aircraft can crash, more money may be required and other opponents might interfere with its plans. As of now NoAI can report whether a command has been executed successfully, however, if a command has failed it can't report why it has failed. This page is both a manual for AI writers as it provides coding guidelines for developers who want to help updating this feature and fixing bugs.

== Code ==
Every error code in OpenTTD has its own ID (StringID) and is used to translate the error into one of the various languages to notify the user through a message on the GUI. In order to translate these errors we have to translate these StringIDs into error messages and expose them through the NoAI API. The last error message can be acquired by calling AIError::GetLastError(), and error messages can be checked by:

 if (!AIAirport::BuildAirport(...)) {
   switch(AIError::GetLastError()) {
     case AIError::NOT_ENOUGH_CASH: // Get some more change
       ...
       break;
     case AIError::LOCAL_AUTHORITY_REFUSES: // Bribe!
       ...
       break;
     case AIAirport::LAND_SLOPES_IN_WRONG_DIRECTION: // Do some terraforming
       ...
       break;
     ...
     default:
       print("Unhandled exception: " + AIError::GetLastErrorString());
       break;
   }
 }

Internally error messages are mapped to both enum constants (like AIError::Not_ENOUGH_CASH) and a string representation. The string representation can be acquired by calling AIError::GetLastErrorString and will match with the name of the enum constant, note that this is meant to be used for debug purposes only! The API documentation lists all errors per method that can occur by invoking it. There are however some exceptions, the following errors will not be listed as they apply to (nearly) all methods:

* AIError::UNKNOWN_ERROR: There has been an error which hasn't been mapped to NoAI. This can either mean 2 things, there is no StringID for this error or we forgot to map it. In the latter case please file a bug report and tell us about it so we can fix it.
* AIError::ERR_PRECONDITION_FAILED: You violated one of the preconditions of the method, no call to the underlaying system has been made.
* AIError::ERR_NEWGRF_SUPPLIED_ERROR: This error is NewGRF specific and we're unable to trace it down and map it.
* AIError::ERR_NOT_ENOUGH_CASH: You don't have enough money for the given action.

The meaning of the other error messages can be looked up in the [http://dev.openttd.org/~noai/aidocs/ API].

== Development ==
We're currently done with writing all code for this feature. The errors codes are directly loaded into SQ (thx for the suggestion TrueBrain :)) so they don't clog the API. If, however, bugs are found or new error messages need to be added, please follow the following guidelines:

* All classes which contains function members which can throw errors must contain an enumeration which lists all these possible errors. This enumeration must be called 'ErrorMessages' for the SQ generation process to pick it up (see below for an example).
* Because the error constants in the enum must be unique through out the whole API the enum must have a unique setoff point. AIError holds an enum list with all possible sets (categories) of errors, each with its unique number.

 enum ErrorCategories {
    ERR_CAT_NONE = 0, //!< Error messages not related to any category.
    ERR_CAT_GENERAL,  //!< Error messages related to general things.
    ERR_CAT_VEHICLE,  //!< Error messages related to building / maintaining vehicles.
    ... (more categories)
 
    /**
     * DO NOT USE! The error bitsize determines how many errors can be stored in
     *  a category and what the offsets are of all categories.
     */
    ERR_CAT_BIT_SIZE = 8,
 };

* The maximal number of messages per category is determined by the ERRR_CAT_BIT_SIZE (in this case 2^8 = 256).
* Each category constant must be named 'ERR_CAT_$NAME', where $NAME stands for the name of the AI class minus the AI prefix. So valid names are ERR_CAT_VEHICLE, ERR_CAT_ROAD, etc.
* When writing your own ErrorMessages enumeration this is how you should do this:

 /**
 * Vehicle error messages.
 */
 enum ErrorMessages {
    /** Base for vehicle errors */
    ERR_VEHICLE_BASE = AIError::ERR_CAT_VEHICLE << AIError::ERR_CAT_BIT_SIZE,
 
    /** Comment about the cause of this error and its meaning */
    ERR_VEHICLE_SOME_ERROR,                          // [STR_1337_SOME_FOUND_ERROR, STR_1002_AN_OTHER]
 
    ...
 }

* Look at the code of ai_error.hpp to get a better impression. Look especially at the syntax of each enum constant definition. After each line you must include a comment section with has brackets, in these brackets you add a list off all StringIDs which you can find in table/strings.h (look in the bin directory under lang/) which should map to your ERR_ constant. The rest is handled by code generation script, squirrel_export.sh (under src/ai/api).

* Violation of preconditions need to be handled in a special way to ensure a ERR_PRECONDITION_FAILED error is thrown in those cases. A special macro EnforcePrecondition is defined in AIError.hpp for this purpose, its use can be extracted from the following example:

 /** Old code */
 if (!IsValidVehicle(vehicle_id) || !IsValidTile(start)) return false;
 
 /** New code */
 EnforcePrecondition(false, IsValidVehicle(vehicle_id));
 EnforcePrecondition(false, IsValidTile(start));

Try to split the preconditions into separate calls to improve readability.

* Last (but not least!) don't forget to update the documentation, add all error messages a method can throw in the comment section with @exception tags.

 /**
  * Builds a vehicle with the given engine at the given depot.
  * @param depot The depot where the vehicle will be build.
  * @param engine_id The engine to use for this vehicle.
  * @pre The tile at depot has a depot that can build the engine and
  *   is owned by you.           
  * @pre IsValidEngine(engine_id).
  * @exception AIError::ERR_NOT_ENOUGH_CASH
  * @exception AIVehicle::ERR_SOME_ERROR
  * ... etc
  *
  * @return The VehicleID of the new vehicle, or an invalid VehicleID when
  *   it failed. Check the return value using IsValidVehicle. In test-mode
  *   0 is returned if it was successful; any other value indicates failure.
  * @note In Test Mode it means you can't assign orders yet to this vehicle,
  *   as the vehicle isn't really built yet. Build it for real first before
  *   assigning orders.
  */
  static VehicleID BuildVehicle(TileIndex depot, EngineID engine_id);

== Progress ==
{|
| Class name
| Status
| Comments (bugs, missing errors, progress, etc)
|-
| AIAcounting 
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AIAirport 
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIBridge 
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AICompany
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIEngine
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AIError
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | All general error messages should move to this class
|-
| AIEvent
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AIIndustry
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AIMap
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AIMarine
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIOrder
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIRoad
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AISettings
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AISign
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIStation
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AITile
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AITown
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | Nothing that needs errors
|-
| AITunnel
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|-
| AIVehicle
| style="background:#00ff00;" | Done
| style="background:#ffffff;" | 
|}
[[Category:en/Development]]
[[Category:en/Development/Script/NoAI]]