[[Translation:en/Development/Script/WrightAI]]
{{en/Development/Script/Navigation}}

At revision 10581, a new AI was added, and SQNoAI removed.
The new AI, named WrightAI, is the first NoAI that actually builds something useful and that is where the name came from (wright is archaic English for craftsman or builder).

== Working Description ==
The first thing it does after starting is sleeping one tick, this is because creating an AI company is seen as a DoCommand, so you can not execute any other DoCommands on that tick. But if you do, OpenTTD throws an assertion failure and crashes.

After that, it names itself to ''WrightAI #x'' (where x is a free number) and prints out a welcome message:

    
   /* Give the boy a name */
   if (!AICompany.SetCompanyName("WrightAI")) {
      local i = 2;
      while (!AICompany.SetCompanyName("WrightAI #" + i)) {
         i++;
      }
   }
   this.name = AICompany.GetCompanyName(AICompany.MY_COMPANY);
   
   /* Say hello to the user */
   print(this.name + ": Welcome to WrightAI. I will be building airports all day long.");

It then takes a loan, makes a ticker system and calculates the time it may sleep every time and makes the loop:
   while(true) {
      /* Loop is executed here */
      Sleep(sleepingtime);
      ticker += sleepingtime;
   }

The loop contains the following things:
* On the first tick, and after that every 1000 ticks, it tries to build a route if it has enough money.
* It checks all airports and their vehicles every 2000 ticks.
* It tries to repay the loan every 5000 ticks.
* It checks for new events(crashed planes) every 100 ticks.
* After that, it sleeps by default 100 ticks and then wakes up to repeat these things.

To check where an airport can be build, it constructs a grid over the best 10 towns with over 500 population, and checks if it can build an airport on any of that grid tiles.