[[Translation:en/Manual/Console Commands]]
== Default commands ==
; alias <name> <command> : Create an alias named <name> bound to <command>.
; ban <client-id> : Ban the client with id <client-id>.
; banlist : List banned clients.
; cd <directory | number> : Change the working directory to <directory> or <number>. Note: this command was added in version 0.4.0.
; clients : Show information about all clients currently connected.
; connect <host> : Connect to a network game running on <host>.
; debug_level <level> : Switch the debug level to <level>, ranging from 0 to 9 (the higher the more sensitive).
; dump_vars : Print all known variables and their values.
; echo <text> : Print out <text> on the console.
; echoc <color> <text> : Print out <text> in color <color>.
; exit : Quit the game.
; goto_dir <number> : Change the working directory to <number>. Use list_files in advance. Note: This command has been replaced by '''cd''' since version 0.4.0.
; help : Display basic console help.
; info_cmd <command> : Show technical information on the command <commmand>.
; info_var <variable> : Show technical information on the variable <variable>.
; list_aliases : List all available aliases.
; list_cmds [<filter>] : List all available commands, optionally only commands starting with <filter>.
; list_files : List files of current directory. Use '''goto_dir''' to change the working directory. Note: This command has been replaced by '''ls''' since version 0.4.0.
; list_vars [<filter>] : List all registered variables, optionally only commands starting with <filter>.
; load <number | file> : Load the savegame <number> or <file>. Use '''ls''' in advance when loading by <number>. Note: The <file> alternative was added in version 0.4.0.
; ls : List files of current directory. Use '''cd''' to change the working directory. Note: This command was added in version 0.4.0.
; newgame : Start a new game.
; printf <format> [<arg_0> .. <arg_n>] : Print out a string, using printf-style.
; printf <color> <format> [<arg_0> .. <arg_n>] : Print out a string with color <color>, using printf-style.
; quit : Quit the game.
; random : Generate a pseudo-random number.
; rcon <password> <command> : Execute <command> on the server authenticated by <password> while connected as a client. The password must be set by "set rcon_pw <password>" on the server in advance.
; reset_company <company-id> : Delete the company identified by <company-id>.
; return : Return (exit) from the running script.
; say <text> : Send a chatmessage containing <text> to all players.
; say_client <client-id> : Send a chatmessage containing <text> to the client identified by <client-id>.
; say_player <player> : Send a chatmessage containing <text> to the player identified by <player>.
; scan_files <file> : Result is position of the given file; see '''list_files'''. Note: This command has been removed since version 0.4.0.
; screenshot [big]: Take a screenshot. By default the screenshot will cover your current screen, if you supply the optional big parameter, a big screenshot will be taken.
; script <file> : Record a script to the file named <file>.
; scrollto <tile> : Scroll to the tile numbered <tile>; hexadecimal (prexifed with 0x) and decimal values supported. Use the land area information tool to get the number of a specific tile.
; set <setting> <value> : Set <setting> to <value>. See [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Console Settings|Console Settings]] for a listing of all available settings.
; status : Get the status information on all currently connected clients.
; unban <ip> : Remove a ban on <ip>.
== Debug Commands [not available in release + network games] ==
; resetengines : Resets all use-age and availability of engines.
; resettile : Clears (independent of owner, ratings, etc.) a tile and resets it to bare land.

[[Category:en/Manual/Console]]