[[Translation:en/Manual/Dedicated server]]
==What is a Dedicated Server?==

A dedicated server is a program which hosts an OTTD network game but doesn't have a client taking part in the game like a normal server. The server program can run in the background on a machine, meaning the person who's running it doesn't even need to be there.

==How do you run an OpenTTD Dedicated Server?==

Run the OpenTTD executable using the '''-D''' switch.

How do I do that?


* In Windows (1st method)
:Create a shortcut to '''OpenTTD.exe'''
:Right-click on the short cut and click '''Properties'''
:Add '''-D''' onto the end of the '''Target''' line
:Click '''Apply'''
:Run the shortcut


* In Windows (2nd method)

:On the start menu click '''Run'''
:Enter: '''"c:\path\to\openttd\openttd.exe" -D'''
:Click '''OK'''


* In Linux

:Run '''openttd -D''' in a terminal. If you are connecting to the server via SSH and would like the game to run when you logout you should use [http://www.gnu.org/software/screen/ GNU Screen].


* In OS/2:

:Run the '''dedicated.cmd''' file. If you run '''openttd -D''', you will not see a console window and will be unable to provide commands to the program.

==And once it's running, what then?==

You'll still have control over the game, but you will have to use the [[en/Manual/Console Commands|console commands]].

==Configuring a Dedicated Server==

First you need to change the game options, you can either do this by launching the game, changing them, and closing the game, or by editing the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Openttd.cfg]] file manually.


Next you need to change the network settings, so go to the Network section of [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Openttd.cfg]]. You had better change [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Server name]] so you can identify you server, and it to be visible on the [[en/Server list]], set [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Server advertise]] to true, and [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Lan internet]] to 0.
*If you have multiple network interfaces make sure you set [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Server bind ip]].
*If you are behind a router, make sure that you forward the port specified by [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Server port]], and set [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Connect to ip]] to the address of your router.


If you would like to run the game on a different computer, copy the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Openttd.cfg]] file to the correct place on that system, and run the game as shown above.

==Loading a Game onto a Dedicated Server==

After launching the server, you have 3 commands to load a game:
* '''ls''' - List the files of the current directory, a number will be beside each one, which represents '''<no>''' below.
* '''cd <no>''' - Go to directory '''<no>''' as listed with '''ls'''.
* '''load <no>''' - Loads file '''<no>''' as listed with '''ls'''.

As of revision 1918 (0.4.0+) you can also load savegames and scenarios with the '''-g <filename>''' command line option. You can also use the alias '''dir''' instead of '''ls'''.

[[Category:en/Dedicated Server]]