[[Translation:en/Manual/FAQ general questions]]



This FAQ covers general questions about OpenTTD.

==Why it is called OpenTTD?==
Because it is an [http://www.opensource.org/ open source] [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Transport Tycoon Deluxe]] clone.
Which means that the sources are available for all to read.  By Open, It does not mean that everyone can add all they want to the code base. It is maintained by a group of people called devs, short for developers.  Code can be supplied to them, and can be included upon certain conditions.

==What's the latest version of OpenTTD?==
{{en/Version}} was released on December 5th, 2011. There are also the bleeding-edge [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build|nightly builds]] and the SVN version that you can use but they are not official releases and are likely to contain bugs and half-finished features. If you're having trouble deciding which version of OpenTTD you should use, [[en/Archive/Community/FAQ OpenTTD versions|read the OpenTTD version FAQ]].

==Where can I download it?==
From [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable openttd.org]. Also look at the [[en/Archive/Manual/Download]] section.

==Under which license is OpenTTD released?==
OpenTTD is released under the [http://www.gnu.org/ GNU] [http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html General Public License].  As such, the source code is [[en/Development/FAQ development#how-can-i-obtain-the-source-code|freely available]].

==What do I need to play it?==
You have two options to play:
* You can use the free base sets aka [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/opengfx OpenGFX ] and [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/opensfx OpenSFX ].
* You can use the traditional sound and graphics from the MS Windows or DOS version of Transport Tycoon Deluxe (several files from either, to be specific).
In both cases please read the instructions how to install them / where to put the base set files (found in the OpenTTD readme, section 4.2 and also instructions are found in the OpenGFX/SFX readme files).

==How do I use the newgrf sets?==
Click [[en/Archive/Community/NewGRF FAQ|here]] for information on using the newgrf sets, or see [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] for more advanced options.

==What is the earliest year I can start my freeplay game?==
The default starting year is 1950. Slightly before that, the first default vehicles are introduced by the game.

If you want to start earlier, there are a few NewGRFs that introduce vehicles earlier.

Note that the game does not end at 2050, you can continue to play after that (until the year 5000000 or so, which should be sufficient for most cases {{en/Emoticon|:)}}). Make sure to enable the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings/Vehicles#vehicles-never-expire|'vehicles never expire']] option though.