[[Translation:en/Manual/Hidden features]]
{{en/Manual/Navigation}}

There are many features within OpenTTD with no GUI buttons or easily accessible to operate. To the most inexperienced of users, these are '''Hidden Features'''.

Here is a list of the hidden features, which are helpful, but not necessarily obvious even to experienced players. Feel free to complete this list.

=Ctrl features=
{| border="1"
!Action!!Command
|-
|Borrow maximum cash||Finances window -> Ctrl + click Borrow button
|-
|Repay maximum cash||Finances window -> Ctrl + click Repay button
|-
|Copy orders||Orders window -> Go To -> click a vehicle
|-
|Assign [[en/Manual/Orders]]||Orders window -> Go To -> Ctrl + click a vehicle
|-
|Clone a vehicle with shared orders||Depot window -> Clone Vehicle -> Ctrl + click a vehicle
|-
|Drag multiple train parts in depot||Depot window -> Ctrl + move wagon
|-
|Pan to location in order||Orders window -> Ctrl + click an order
|-
|Place [[en/Manual/Signals]]s||Railway construction -> Build signal -> Ctrl + click plain railroad track
|-
|Place [[en/Manual/Signals#pre-signals|pre-signals]]||Railway construction -> Build signal -> Ctrl + click already existing signal
|-
|[[en/Manual/Signals]] autocomplete||Railway construction -> Build signal -> Ctrl + drag over plain railroad track
|-
|Remove desert in scenario editor||Landscape -> Desert tool -> Ctrl + click tile
|-
|Double size mode||Ctrl + D to toggle. Only available in Windows while in windowed mode.
|-
|turn vehicle||Ctrl + click on vehicle in depot window.
|-
|auto service||Ctrl + click goto depot icon
|}

=More features=
* mouse wheel for list scrolling or map zooming (the main map, not the small map)
* press x to toggle transparent mode
* cost estimation with "shift" key. Works almost everywhere. Also allows you to cancel construction if you have already clicked (eg. about to build track in wrong place, just hold down shift and release mouse button).
* Bridge upgrades: Build a new bridge over the old bridge to upgrade it. If upgrading a town bridge the new bridge must have a higher top speed, but otherwise it can be anything you like. (Only in Nightly Build & SVN)
* chat autocomplete: use <tab> to toggle through player- and town names
* chat window: SHIFT+ENTER (SHIFT+T) sends a message to all players, CTRL+ENTER (CTRL+T) sends a message to all team mates and ENTER (T) is customizable
* close all windows/tabs: use DEL to close all open windows in your ottd at once.
* hold CTRL along with your current build tool (e.g. rails) to trigger the 'remove' function for the tool selected.
[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]