[[Translation:en/Manual/Industries]]
Industries are companies that produce specific goods and/or services. In openTTD an industry of a machine that by some process turns one type of resource into another. These resources are then transported by a [[en/Manual/Transport company|transport company]]. Some of the industries produce or require a resource that is not transportable, such as the power plant. It implicitly produces power but this resource can not be tranported by a company. 

{{en/Note|Your company only transports the goods. This is why diamonds yeild a pittance compared to wood. Diamonds are light and easy to transport. You are not getting paid for the value of the diamonds.}}

==Government Regulation==
Industries are governed by a [[en/Manual/Local authority|local authority]].

==Funding New Industries==
It is possible for a transport company to fund(build) a new industry. However, you won't get any return on your investment except the added cargo to transport. (No profit share or anything.) And you don't own the facility that you create. Several patches change the rules of building new industries. [[#related-patches|See below]].

==Industry Needs/Production Table==
{| 
| Industry
| Climate
| Requires/Accepts
| Produces
| Notes
|- 
| rowspan=3 | Bank
| Temperate
| Valuables
| Valuables
| 
|- 
| Sub-arctic
| Gold
| 
| 
|- 
| Tropical
| Diamonds
| 
| 
|- 
| Coal Mine
| Temperate<br>Sub-arctic
| 
| Coal
| 
|- 
| Copper Ore Mine
| Tropical
| 
| Copper Ore
| 
|- 
| Diamond Mine
| Tropical
| 
| Diamonds
| 
|- 
| rowspan=2 | Factory
| Temperate
| Livestock, Grain, Steel
| Goods
| 
|- 
| Tropical
| Rubber, Copper Ore, Wood
| Goods
| 
|- 
| rowspan=3 | Farm
| Temperate
| 
| Grain, Livestock
| 
|- 
| Sub-arctic
| 
| Wheat, Livestock
| 
|- 
| Tropical
| 
| Maize
| 
|- 
| rowspan=2 | Food Processing Plant
| Sub-arctic
| Livestock, Wheat
| Food
| Food is required to grow cities above the snow line
|- 
| Tropical
| Fruit, Maize
| Food
| Food is required to grow cities in the desert.
|- 
| Forest
| Temperate<br>Sub-arctic
| 
| Wood
| 
|- 
| Fruit Plantation
| Tropical
| 
| Fruit
| 
|- 
| Gold Mine
| Sub-arctic
| 
| Gold
| 
|- 
| Iron Ore Mine
| Temperate
| 
| Iron Ore
| 
|- 
| Lumber Mill
| Tropical
| 
| Wood
| Only built on tree type 4 (Rainforest)
|- 
| Oil Refinery
| Temperate<br>Sub-arctic<br>Tropical
| Oil
| Goods
| 
|- 
| Oil Rig
| Temperate
| Passengers
| Oil, Passengers
| Passengers by ship or helicopter
|- 
| Oil Wells
| Temperate<br>Sub-arctic<br>Tropical
| 
| Oil
| 
|- 
| Paper Mill
| Sub-arctic
| Wood
| Paper
| 
|- 
| Power Station
| Temperate<br>Sub-arctic
| Coal
| 
| 
|- 
| Printing Works
| Sub-arctic
| Paper
| Goods
| 
|- 
| Rubber Plantation
| Tropical
| 
| Rubber
| 
|- 
| Sawmill
| Temperate
| Wood
| Goods
| 
|- 
| Steel Mill
| Temperate
| Iron Ore
| Steel
| 
|- 
| Water Supply
| Tropical
| 
| Water
| 
|- 
| Water Tower
| Tropical
| Water
| 
| Cities in the desert require water to grow
|} 


==Related Patches==
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Multiple industries per town|Allow building multiple industries per type per town]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Same industries close|Allow bulding same type of industry close together]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build raw material industries|Allow building raw material producing industries]]

[[Category:en/Manual/Entities]]