[[Translation:en/Manual/Installation]]
<div style="float:left; padding-right: 20px;">__TOC__</div>{{en/Manual/Navigation}}
Installation can be a little complicated, as the [[en/Archive/Community/Base graphics]] are not distributed with the game. So beside [http://www.openttd.org/ downloading the game], you need to obtain a set of base graphics as well.


Currently, there are two sets of base graphics that OpenTDD can use:
* One fully functional set is located on the [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport Tycoon Transport Tycoon Deluxe] (TTD) cd. Opposed to OpenTTD, TTD is '''not''' freeware;
* An [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open source None] alternative to the TTD base graphics called [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]] is currently being made. The OpenGFX base graphics set is not completed yet, but is already very playable.


'''Select the installation instructions for the base graphics set you chose and your operating system from the menu at the left.'''
* '''If you have access to the TTD base graphics and can't decide what base graphics to use, install the game using the TTD base graphics. OpenGFX can easily be installed afterwards.'''


<div style="clear:left;"></div>
== Installation on Windows ==
===Using TTD base graphics===
# Get Transport Tycoon Deluxe for Windows. If you don't have your CD, see [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=3407 tt-forums.net], or [http://www.google.com/search?q=transport+tycoon+deluxe Google] it.
# Download the Windows installer for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable downloads page].
# Install OpenTTD.
# Tell OpenTTD where to find your TTD files; it should find them automatically if you used the TTD Windows installer, if not point it to the TTD CD in the drive.
# Run OpenTTD.


===Using OpenGFX base graphics===
# Download the Windows installer for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/ OpenTTD website]. You need at least '''version 0.7.0'''.
# Install OpenTTD.
# Skip the step where the installer asks for the TTD files.
# Consult the [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme#manually-installing-opengfx|OpenGFX Readme]] for further instructions.


== Installation on Mac OS X ==
===Using TTD base graphics===
#Get Transport Tycoon Deluxe for Windows or DOS. If you don't have your CD, see [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=3407 tt-forums.net], or [http://www.google.com/search?q=transport+tycoon+deluxe Google] it.
#Create an '''openttd/''' folder on your computer.
#OpenTTD requires some files from TTD, see [[#files-from-ttd|below]] for what files need to go where.
#Get the OSX installer for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable downloads page].
#Run OpenTTD.


:'''Attention:''' To run the original soundtrack, you will need TiMidity and Freepats. See [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on GNU∕Linux and 🟉BSD#playing-the-soundtrack|Playing the soundtrack]] for more information.


:If the music doesn't work, the cause might be the file permissions.
#Select all of the .gm files in the '''gm/''' folder, press CMD + I to "Get Info".
#Under "Ownership & Permissions" select "you can: Read & Write".
#Restart OpenTTD.


===Using OpenGFX base graphics===
# Download the OSX installer for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/ OpenTTD website]. You need at least '''version 0.7.0'''.
# Install OpenTTD.
# Skip the step where the installer asks for the TTD files.
# Consult the [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme#manually-installing-opengfx|OpenGFX Readme]] for further instructions.


== Installation on Linux ==
===Using TTD base graphics===
#Get Transport Tycoon Deluxe for Windows or DOS.  If you don't have your CD, see [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=3407 tt-forums.net], or [http://www.google.com/search?q=transport+tycoon+deluxe Google] it.
#Create an '''openttd/''' directory on your computer.
#OpenTTD requires some files from TTD, see [[#files-from-ttd|below]] for what files need to go where.
#Download the OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable downloads page].
:* You can also download the source and compile the game yourself! See [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on GNU∕Linux and 🟉BSD]].
#Run OpenTTD.


===Using OpenGFX base graphics===
#Create an '''openttd/''' directory on your computer.
# Download OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/ OpenTTD website]. You need at least '''version 0.7.0'''.
:* You can also download the source and compile the game yourself! See [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on GNU∕Linux and 🟉BSD]].
# Consult the [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme#manually-installing-opengfx|OpenGFX Readme]] for further instructions.


== Files from TTD ==
If you're installing OpenTTD with the TTD base graphics, OpenTTD requires several original game files from your Transport Tycoon Deluxe installation CD.

The following files are mandatory. You need to copy them to the /data directory, which is in your OpenTTD directory. These files contain the grapics and the sound effects:
* trg1r.grf
* trgcr.grf
* trghr.grf
* trgir.grf
* trgtr.grf
* sample.cat


Additionally, you may want to copy the original game music. To accomplish that, you need to copy the /gm/ folder from the TTD CD to your OpenTTD directory (don't put it in the data/ dir!).


There are a few ways to get these files:
* Copy the folder and files from the TTD game CD to your OpenTTD /data folder.
* Unzip a TTD installation zip file, and copy the folders.
* Install TTD for Windows in another directory and then copy the folders.

== See also ==
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Installation FAQ]] for other installation methods
* [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]]