[[Translation:en/Manual/Interoperability]]


[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]

It is possible to load TTO/TTD/TTDPatch games in OpenTTD. Look in the list below for further details.

==Transport Tycoon (Original) scenarios/savegames==
Since SVN revision r15216 (2009-01-23) and officially since version 0.7.0 OpenTTD is able to load any savegame or scenario from TTO. The TTO loader code is based on SVXConverter by Roman Vetter. Possible extensions:
* *.sv0 - Transport Tycoon (Original) scenario (created using the "World Editor" add-on)
* *.sv1 - Transport Tycoon (Original) saved game
* *.sv2 - Transport Tycoon (Original) saved multiplayer game (2 players)

==Transport Tycoon Deluxe savegames==
You can load any TTD savegame into OpenTTD. Possible extensions:
* *.sv1 - Transport Tycoon Deluxe saved game
* *.sv2 - Transport Tycoon Deluxe saved multiplayer game (2 players)
* *.ss1 - Transport Tycoon Deluxe preset game (included on TTDLX CD)

==Transport Tycoon Deluxe scenarios==
Most scenarios should work. Copy them into the /scenario directory using the following extensions:
* *.sv0 - Transport Tycoon Deluxe scenario
* *.ss0 - Transport Tycoon Deluxe preset scenario (included on TTDLX CD)

==TTDPatch savegames==
{{en/Warning|Not all TTDPatch savegames can be loaded into OpenTTD!}}
In particular, if you have used '''morevehicles''', the game will not load. Certain other patches from TTDPatch are also incompatible with OpenTTD. Some patches, like [[en/Manual/Signals]] do work in OpenTTD, but others might not be loaded correctly in OpenTTD. Even if a feature is supported in both TTDPatch and OpenTTD, the savegame might not work.