[[Translation:en/Manual/Local authority]]
The local authority is the goverment that controls each area of the map. In openTTD,
local authorities are environmentalists and will easily get outraged when companies cut down trees or modify the landscape. It is, however, possible to change their opinion
and make them more inclined to negotiations, for the right price.


==Operations==
Local Authorities govern people and companies. For [[en/Manual/Transport company|Transport Companies]], they issue building permits. If a Transport Company's rating is poor, they may refuse to allow that company to build in the authority's area of influence. They may also offer [[en/Manual/Subsidy|Subsidies]] to encourage transport companies to offer service for a route demanded by their constituents.

==The City==
The city is the center of the local authority's area of influence.
The city will need passenger service to grow. Goods grow the city as well. In the tropical climate, a city in the desert will also require food and water. In the sub-arctic climate, a city in the snowy mountains, will require food.

==Area of Influence==
The local authority controls a certain area around it's city. It also controls any land the city has expanded to include, and the land that it's industries are on. Changing terrain, exploding trees or buildings, planting trees, actions, and performance of stations in this area will change the attitude of the local authority. Having a poor rating will affect what a [[en/Manual/Transport company|transport company]] is allowed to build in the area controlled by the local authority. Normally there is only one [[en/Manual/Industries|industry]] of each type allowed  under a local authority. This can be [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Multiple industries per town|changed]].

==Ratings==
The rating is the local authority's attitude toward each company. This is not the same (AFAIK) as station ratings. This rating determine's what actions will be allowed in the area and not whether a transport company's services will be used as opposed to a competitor.
More technical information about this can be found in [[en/Manual/Game Mechanics/Main Page|Game Mechanics]].

==Actions==
These actions are avalable in the Local Authority window provided a transport company has enough money.

===Advertising===
Advertising campaigns attract more customers to a transport company's services and away from the competition.

===Build Statue===
A transport company may build a statue in honor of itself and its manager. This will increase its station ratings at stations in the area.

===Fund New Buildings===
Funds new commercial buildings. Like funding a new industry, a company won't get any return on its investment except the added customers for its service. (No rent, shared profits, or anything like that.)

===Road Reconstruction===
Fund the reconstruction of the urban road network. Causes considerable disruption to road traffic for up to six months. Use this to piss off the other players in multiplayer. There is no other benefit. (The trucks don't go any faster after the roads are re-built.)

===Buy Exclusive Transport Rights===
Buys a year's exclusive transport rights in the area of the local authority. Passengers and cargo will only be allowed to use the transport services of the purchasing company during that time.

===Pass a Bribe===
Bribe the local authority to increase a company's rating at the risk of a severe penalty if caught. This option is not available if a company's rating is already high. If caught by the [[en/Archive/Manual/Regional Investigator|regional investigator]], the company will not be able to transport any cargo from the area for six months. The [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|bribe patch]] must be enabled.

==Related Patches==
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|Allow bribe]]
*[[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Multiple industries per town|Allow more than one industry per type per area]]

[[Category:en/Manual/Entities]]