[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Crossing tunnels]]
== Prolouge ==

You know how annoying it was before, building this huge rail and want it to tunnel through a mountain, then you click where to tunnel, and get only an anoying "Can't tunnel through here: another tunnel in the way", just because you forgot that there already was a tunnel.

<center>http://www.thorrune.sea-host.net/filedump/ottdviki/crosstunels/1.PNG</center>

== Using the patch ==



Now, OTTD has something to counter that... Though it's considered a cheat, why I'll explain later, click ctrl + alt + c and look for "Enable tunnel crossings" 

<center>http://www.thorrune.sea-host.net/filedump/ottdviki/crosstunels/2.PNG</center>
(Try not to fall for the temptation of giving yourselfe a couple of mills... It'll ruin youre game)

Now, et voila, you can built the tunnel!

<center>http://www.thorrune.sea-host.net/filedump/ottdviki/crosstunels/3.PNG</center>

== Why is it a cheat? ==

Why it's a cheat? The original creator of this, eis_os, the TTDPatch developer, thought that it was stupid that long tunnels couldn't pass under or over each-other. So, he made this patch.  Unfortunately, he was unable to limit it to long tunnels that could in reality have passed under or over each-other, so now, people could tunnel through a 6x6 hillside from both sides, making trains pass through each-other. 

<center>http://www.thorrune.sea-host.net/filedump/ottdviki/crosstunels/4.PNG</center>


Yet in OpenTTD, the distance still haven't been limited, so it's put in the cheat menu.