[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Download]]

{{en/Manual/Navigation}}

== Stable releases ==
You can download the latest stable game files for your [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Operating system]] from [https://www.openttd.org/downloads/openttd-releases/latest openttd.org], where you can choose between binaries, source or installer type of download.

In addition you will need game data files (e.g. graphics, sound effects). You can either use the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe data files or our free alternatives [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]] ([https://www.openttd.org/downloads/opengfx-releases/latest download graphics]), [[en/Archive/Community/Sound Effects Replacement]] ([https://www.openttd.org/downloads/opensfx-releases/latest download sound]) and [[en/Archive/Community/OpenMSX]] ([https://www.openttd.org/downloads/openmsx-releases/latest download music]) which you can download at the same location as well.

For installation see the [[en/Archive/Manual/Installation FAQ|installation FAQ]] for details.


== Testing and development versions ==

=== Testing and nightly releases ===
:*Regularly testing releases or beta versions of upcoming stable releases will be available. These builds shall make sure that the game gets some testing before the next stable release so that it doesn't contain any serious bugs. [http://www.openttd.org/download-testing Download testing] (will redirect to latest stable, if currently unavailable)
:*You can download the [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]] binaries from [https://www.openttd.org/downloads/openttd-nightlies/latest.html nightly.openttd.org]. Each of the supported OS's precompiled version can be found in the appropriate folder.

=== Translating OpenTTD ===
Translations are made via the [https://translator.openttd.org web interface]. But you can test translations prior to editing the strings in the translation system also locally. This is especially helpful with tricky cases where the immediate use of a string is not clear on first sight:
:*Get the last nightly version of the game and get the matching [http://www.openttd.org/en/download-strgen strgen] which allows you to re-compile the language files for immediate testing with the OpenTTD version.

=== Obtaining the source code ===
:*If you have a compiler, you can always get the newest source from the [https://github.com/OpenTTD/OpenTTD Git] server. Read up on the VCS servers at [https://www.openttd.org/development openttd.org]

If you don't plan to compile the language files yourself, you can get the lng files from the nightly build zip files, found above.

You can get the current source via [https://github.com/OpenTTD/OpenTTD GitHub].

[[Category:en/Manual/Installation]]