[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Installation FAQ]]


This FAQ covers questions about installing OpenTTD.

== What do I need to run OpenTTD? ==
You will need to be running one of the [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Operating system|supported operating systems]]. Then check that your system meets the [[en/Archive/Manual/System Requirements]].

== How do I install OpenTTD? ==
=== On Windows: ===
:*Quite simple, only a few steps:
:#''Obtain'' a copy of Transport Tycoon Deluxe for Windows or DOS(Note:no longer needed due to [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]] and [[en/Archive/Community/Sound Effects Replacement]]).
:#Note down where you installed/unzipped the game.
:#Get the windows installer for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable downloads page]- or simply the complete zip archive from same location.
:#Double click!
:#Tell it where to find your TTD files(or put OpenGFX and SFX in the /data directory of the unzipped archive).
:#Run OpenTTD.
:#Marvel at the splendourificatiousness of the welcome screen.

:You can, of course, also get the [[en/Source code]],this is just the easiest/quickest route. ''(but if you took the longer route... would it increase the route income?.. or should you wait for monorail... ..)''

=== On Linux: ===
* As with most things in Linux, there are various ways to get a working copy of OpenTTD:
:* You may find OpenTTD in your distro's packaging system, e.g. Aptitude, Yum, Portage and YaST. For info about using such a system, check your distro's manual or website.
:* You can find packages for some distros on the sourceforge project page, such as .deb and .rpm files.
:* You can download the source and compile the game yourself! You can read how to do this here: [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on GNU∕Linux and 🟉BSD]]
* Now that you should have a copy of OpenTTD, you will need some of the Transport Tycoon Deluxe data files which contain images and sounds:
:* If you used a package to install the game:
::* You can insert your TTD CD-ROM and copy the needed files to your /usr/share/games/openttd/data directory. (The needed files are listed below)
::* If you have a multiboot system which includes a windows partition or if you have access to a windows system over your network which has TTD installed, you can copy the needed files from the installation directory to /usr/share/games/openttd/data. (The needed files are listed below)
:::*If you copy the files from another PC on the network, be sure that you are in the posession of a license to the files!
:* If you compiled the game yourself:
::* You can insert your TTD CD-ROM and copy the needed files to the ./data directory in the directory where you compiled the game. (The needed files are listed below)
::* If you have a multiboot system which includes a windows partition or if you have access to a windows system over your network which has TTD installed, you can copy the needed files from the installation directory to the ./data directory in the directory where you compiled the game. (The needed files are listed below)
:::*If you copy the files from another PC on the network, be sure that you are in the posession of a license to the files!
* Step-by-step in Ubuntu 8.04 onwards:
:* Goto 'Ubuntu Software Centre'.
:* Search for 'openttd'
:*Install Openttd as it comes
:* You can download and install sounds and graphics in the game itself
:** The game data will be saved in "/usr/share/games/openttd/data"
:** Savegames / screenshots etc will be saved in "/home/{username}/.openttd". (Note that this directory may be hidden. To see it click 'View' in the File Browser in your username hame directory and tick 'show hidden files').

=== On Mac OS X: ===
:*Quite simple, only a few steps:
:#''Obtain'' a copy of [http://www.openttd.org/download-opengfx OpenGFX]
:#Unpack OpenGFX it into ~/Documents/OpenTTD/data (create that directory, if it doesn't exist)
:#Get the OSX bundle for OpenTTD from the [http://www.openttd.org/download-stable downloads page].
:#Mount the downloaded image and copy OpenTTD into a folder of your choice, i.e. /Applications/OpenTTD/ (it is recommended that it's empty as OpenTTD will add files to it).
:#[optional] Also make a "gm" folder, and copy the .gm files across into it for all the cheesy midi goodness.'''[*2]'''
:#Run OpenTTD!
:#[optional] You can now conveniently install sound and music sets be using ingame content download

=== On other systems: ===
:*If it is a unix-like system you have good chances to play OpenTTD on it. It runs on more different systems and architectures than mentioned here.
:#Look into the [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Operating system|Operating System List]] whether there are reports on your system.
:#Make sure, that the [http://libsdl.org SDL library] is available for your platform and installed on your system.
:#Download the OpenTTD source code and try to compile the game yourself.
:#Add an entry to the [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Operating system|Operating System List]], even if you were not successful.

== What files do I need from TTD? ==
:*If you are not using the installer to install OpenTTD, (or are just curious) you need to copy certain files by hand.
:Required files; put these in the <i>data/</i> folder:
::* Graphic files: <b>trg1r.grf</b>, <b>trgcr.grf</b>, <b>trghr.grf</b>, <b>trgir.grf</b>, <b>trgtr.grf</b>
:::*If you are using the DOS version of TTD to copy the files from, you need the files which are named above but without the "R" on the end, e.g. trg1.grf etc.
::* Sound files: <b>sample.cat</b>
:If you also want music, ''(the all important cheesy midi goodness)'' copy the following files to the  <i>gm/</i> folder:
::* Music files: <b>*.gm</b>
::If there is no gm folder, just create it in the main openttd folder, and put the files there. Note that DOS version of TTD does not have <b>*.gm</b> files.

On *nix computers, you need make sure you have permission to view the above files as a normal user, otherwise, you will only be able to run
OTTD as root.

Note: Use [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]] and [[en/Archive/Community/Sound Effects Replacement]], that start OpenTTD without TTD's files. Please, read the [[en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]] carefully.

== What about nightly builds? ==
The nightly builds are installed on top of the latest stable build. Download the latest nightly build archive, then extract it to your OpenTTD installation folder. Backing up the latest stable installation is recommended.

To always play the latest nightly you can use an [[en/Archive/Community/OpenTTD Updaters|updater]] to update to latest [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]] when you start the OpenTTD.

[[Category:en/FAQs]]
[[Category:en/Manual/Installation]]