[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]

== The news messages ==
The news messages informs you about important events in the game.

News messages are displayed at the status bar in the [[en/Manual/Game interface]]. You can change which messages to display and how to display them by changing the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Message settings]].

== Message types ==
All message types are listed below. (If there is wrong information, you can edit it to get it correct, or you can add more information)

=== Arrival of first vehicle at player's station ===
E.g. "First train arrives at..." for player's stations

=== Arrival of first vehicle at competitors's station ===
E.g. "First train arrives at..." for competitors's stations

=== Accidents/disasters ===
Information about accidents (e.g. aircraft crashes, train collision, etc) and [[en/Manual/Disasters|disasters]] (e.g. UFO landings)

=== Company information ===
New companies being founded, companies being taken over or declared bankrupt.

=== Economy changes ===
Information about production increase/decrease for industries.

=== Advice/information on player's vehicles ===
Information about player's vehicles (e.g. "Train 1 has too few orders in the schedule").

=== New vehicles ===
Notifications about new vehicles being available.

=== Changes to cargo acceptance ===
Sometimes conditions around a station change, causing it to accept new cargo or to stop accepting cargo. This is most likely to happen with Passenger, Mail and Goods stations, due to towns being reconstructed.

=== Subsidies ===
Whenever a new subsidy is available or an existing subsidy is withdrawn you'll be notified.