[[Translation:en/Archive/Manual/Savegame]]
Xrumer is a program which will post in fourms and also post blog comments. It has many great features and can go around difficulties such as account creation, client diagnosis, and captchas. This makes it a very hassle-free program to use. You can also retain an  where somebody will operate the link building software for you. Using an Xrumer Service really makes obtaining excellent SEO results easy. Xrumer can be very costly to own as it costs $500, but it highly recommended you have a dedicated server as well. This can usually cost $150-$200 monthly. Using an Xrumer service is really a less expensive route to take.           Make sure you are getting top quality work when you choose to use an Xrumer service. You want to be able to verify your inbound links, so make sure you get a report. The Xrumer service you utilize should be able to provide you with this. If they will not provide you with this, then you definitely should get someone else for your Xrumer needs. You also want to make sure that there aren't any broken links. If the forum doesn't not allow HTML or certain types of anchor-text, then you'll have many broken links. This certainly does nothing for your SEO rankings, and it is only a waste of time.           While Xrumer is very good, there are many individuals who do not make any promises about the amount of posts you will receive. If you find someone who will guarantee their work with Xrumer for a reasonable price, then you should really make the most of that Xrumer service. You'll then know that you are getting the links you deserve.           There are many companies who offer a Xrumer service who offer a couple of hundred thousand forum posts or blog comments. This is great, however the the fact is many of these will not even get accepted. The rate of success for this type of Xrumer blast is usually around 4%. Then out of those many of them are not even live on the web. If you want to find a trustworthy Xrumer service, make sure they guarantee the quantity of posts you will have, and make sure you can verify it.           When utilizing Xrumer the right way you can observe big increases in your search engine rankings. However, this will not be enough alone in most cases.  You will have to include other backlinking strategies and on page SEO as well. However if you are serious regarding obtaining high rankings in the SERP's, then you need to consider using an Xrumer service.