[[Translation:en/Manual/Tutorial/Conclusion]]
{| width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" valign="top" border="0" style="margin-bottom: 0; margin-left: 1px;" |
| style="border: 0; border-bottom:1px solid #a3bfb1; background:none; width:2%" | &nbsp;
| style="padding:0 .3em; background-color:#cef2e0; font-size:90%; border:solid 1px #a3bfb1; text-align:center; width: 12em;"| [[en/Manual/Tutorial/Main Page|1. Getting Started]]
| style="border: 0; border-bottom:1px solid #a3bfb1; background:none; width:2%" | &nbsp;
| style="padding:0 .3em; background-color:#cef2e0; font-size:90%; border:solid 1px #a3bfb1; text-align:center; width: 12em;"|[[en/Manual/Tutorial/Buses|2. Busses]]
| style="border: 0; border-bottom:1px solid #a3bfb1; background:none; width:2%" | &nbsp;
| style="padding:0 .3em; background-color:#cef2e0; font-size:90%; border:solid 1px #a3bfb1; text-align:center; width: 12em;"|[[en/Manual/Tutorial/Trains|3. Trains]]
| style="border: 0; border-bottom:1px solid #a3bfb1; background:none; width:2%" | &nbsp;
| style="padding:0 .3em; background-color:white; border:solid 1px #cef2e0; border-bottom: 0; text-align:center; font-size:90%; font-weight:bold; background-color:#f5fffa; width: 12em;" | '''4. Conclusion'''
| style="border: 0; border-bottom:1px solid #a3bfb1; background:none;" | &nbsp;
|}
<div style="padding:.5em 1em 1em 1em; border-top:none; background-color:#f5fffa; color:#000;">
<div style="float: right">
{{en/Manual/Tutorial/Navigation}}</div>
==Conclusion==
So, you have set up your first transport company and some routes. What now? Well, it's up to you - you can choose to build a thousand bus services all across the map. Or you could see a nice business opportunity involving a forest and a nearby sawmill. Who knows? Just make sure you keep your company running profitably, and perhaps you'll end up as the greatest Transport Tycoon come the year 2050.

===Next steps===
* The menu at the top of the article lists some more detailed tutorials, particularly for railways.
* Read a detailed description of the [[en/Manual/Game interface|interface]] or even more about [[en/Manual/Construction]].
* Find out what kind of [[en/Manual/Vehicles]] you will encounter in OpenTTD. Meet planes & ships.
* Follow [[en/Manual/Railway construction]] for more articles on laying even more tracks, making incredible junctions and some more advanced stuff.
* Read [[en/Manual/Main Page|the manual]] if you need information on anything specific - or try searching for it.

<span style="float: right">[[en/Tutorial/Two Platforms|Next Tutorial: Expanding the railway with more trains and platforms.]] &raquo;</span>


</div>