[[Translation:en/Archive/OpenTTD/Changes from TTD]]
{{es/Traducción|en/Archive/OpenTTD/Changes from TTD|40}}

=Novedades en OpenTTD que no estaban en Transport Tycoon Deluxe=
OpenTTD está basado en el juego original [[es/Archive/OpenTTD/Transport Tycoon Deluxe|Transport Tycoon Deluxe]] de Chris Sawyer mejorando espectacularmente su jugabilidad. Muchas de las funciones incorporadas se han inspirado en [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] mientras que otras son originales. También puedes consultar la [[es/Archive/OpenTTD/Comparación entre las características de OpenTTD y de TTDPatch|comparación entre OpenTTD y TTDPatch]].

==Mejoras significativas==
* Multiplataforma: Versiones nativas para Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, OS/2 y más.
* [[es/Archive/Manual/Autorraíl|Herramienta Autorraíl]]: Le permite mediante arrastrar y soltar construir vías de ferrocarril en cualquier dirección según el sentido en el que usted arrastre.
* Mapas más grandes, hasta de 2048x2048 casillas.
* Escenarios realistas basados en mapas de alturas realizados a partir de los datos digitales de altitud descargados desde Google Earth, vea la siguiente [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=27052 página del foro] o una el siguiente [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=92633 documento Word] de puesta al día.
* [[es/Manual/Muelles|Canales]] y [[es/Manual/Muelles|dársenas]]:  Permite a los jugadores crear vías navegables que se extiendan sobre la tierra por donde normalmente no podrían navegar los barcos.
* Estaciones de mayor tamaño: Las estaciones pueden ser más largas y compuestas por muchos más andenes.
* [[es/Estaciones no uniformes|Estaciones no uniformes]]: Se pueden construir estaciones y recortarlas.
* Capacidad para [[es/Unir estaciones|unir estaciones]] (de igual anchura o longitud): La construcción de una estación junto a otra estación del mismo tipo, ancho y longitud crea una sola estación más larga.
* [[es/Manual/Puntos de ruta|Puntos de ruta]]: Un tramo especial de vía que se puede colocar cuando las rutas se ramifican, forzando así a utilizar un camino en particular para llegar a su destino.
* [[es/Archive/Manual/Settings/Trenes Mamut|Trenes Mamut]]:  Los trenes pueden ser mucho más largos.
* [[es/Trenes multitracción|Trenes multitracción]]: Los trenes pueden tener más de una máquina para ayudar a aumentar la velocidad cuando llevan cargas pesadas, poder subir cuestas, etc.
* [[es/Archive/Manual/Settings/Construir en pendientes|Construir en pendientes]] y costas: Es posible construir en las pendientes de las costas o de los montes; la casilla pertinente se rellena hasta cierta altura con un coste determinado.
* Orden Ir a depósito: Permite insertar una orden mandando a un vehículo a regresar al depósito.
* [[es/Puentes más largos|Puentes más largos]]: Los puentes puede abarcar grandes distancias ... a un precio.
* Puentes más altos: Los puentes pueden alcanzar grandes alturas permitiendo redes más complejas.
* Tres nuevos puentes: Permite un mayor uso de los trenes a mayor velocidad.
* [[es/Manual/Señales|Señales previas]]: Como en TTDPatch, son señales especiales para ayudar a construir diseños complejos de vías (normalmente se usa cuando hay muchos andenes conectados a una vía de tren simple o doble).
* [[es/Semáforos|Semáforos]] (CTRL-D para colocarlos) - Como en [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch].

{{es/Pendiente de traducción}}

* [[en/Manual/Orders|Order sharing]] and [[en/Manual/Orders|copying]] ("goto" on other vehicle to copy, ctrl+"goto" to share) - Vehicles can now share orders with order changes propagating to all vehicles, and orders can just be copied by clicking on any other vehicle to save time.
* [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDpatch]-compatible Non-stop handling - Exactly as it says on the tin.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Crossing tunnels|Crossing tunnels]] - Tunnels may now cross over each other underground.
* Build many trees on one tile
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Bribe authority|Bribe the town authority]] - If your townsmen hate you, you can bribe the local authority to help you but it's expensive and runs the risk of you being caught.
* Much improved [[en/Manual/Multiplayer|networking and internet play]] by TCP/IP, including server lists, kick/ban, dedicated server, cheat protection and chat.
* [[en/Development/Script/Main Page|AI framework]] allowing for new, user made AIs. The old (cheating) AI was removed.
* Three new types of airport ([[en/Manual/Airports|metropolitan]] in 1980, [[en/Manual/Airports|international]] in 1990 and [[en/Manual/Airports|intercontinental]] in 2002).
* [[en/Manual/Drive-through Road Stops]] - New kind of station for road vehicles. Much like a traditional real-life "bus stop", these new stations allow road vehicles to load/unload passengers and cargo simply by stopping by the side of the road.
* [[en/Manual/Tramways]] - New kind of road vehicles (like bus) and require special tracks, stops and depots for them.

==Better usability==

* [[en/Manual/Convert rail|Convert rail]] tool (to rail, monorail, maglev) - To enable you to easily switch your tracks to the latest technology.
* Build stations with drag & drop - Rather than guess at the size or count the tiles, just drag and drop the station over the desired area and it is built for you.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Build in pause|Build while paused]] - An optional patch that allows building while the game is paused.
* Mouse wheel can be used to scroll in menus and to zoom in/out on win32 and Mac OS X
* Autoscroll (to left/right) - when you reach the edge of the screen, it moves across.
* Bigger demolish tool
* Plant trees on area
* [[en/Manual/Sell entire train|Sell whole train]] by dragging to dynamite trashcan - Sells the whole train instead of just a single carriage.
* Cost estimation with Shift - Holding Shift on almost any action will show you how much it will cost you before you do it.
* Road and rail removing by dragging
* Company HQ can now be moved somewhere else (cost 1% of company value)
* Autosave at a regular interval
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings/Vehicles|Autorenew]]/replace vehicles that are nearing their end of life
* It's now possible to remove a platform from a station by clicking on the station tool and then on the remove tool, then on the platform you want to remove.

==New options==

* "No train service" option
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable inflation|Disable inflation]] option
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Full load any cargo|Full load any]] option, as in [http://www.ttdpatch.net/ TTDPatch] - Your train will leave the station if ANY of its cargos are full.
* "Select goods" option
* "Multiple similar industries in close proximity" option
* "Multiple industries per town" option
* News item for "train is unprofitable"
* News item for "train is lost"
* Ability to set the starting date, takes a value on the form yyyy, yyyymm or yyyymmdd.
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Disable AI vehicles|Select]] what vehicle types the AI will build
* Ability to choose snowline height
* Change default servicing interval for vehicles
* Change maximum number of vehicles per player
* New pathfinding algorithm for trains
* [[en/Manual/Landscaping]]

==Graphical/interface features==

* Screenshots can be BMP, PNG or PCX (select in game options menu)
* More currencies (including Euro introduction in 2002 and your own custom currencies)
* More townname languages
* Windowed mode or fullscreen including resolution selection.
* Sticky windows (don't close unless you close them yourself) and snappy windows (windows align themselves against each other when dragged).
* Resizeable windows
* Refresh rate configuration setting
* Town directory sorting
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Advanced Settings]] configuration window
* Use Ctrl-click to repay full loan or take out full loan
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Coloured newspaper|Color newspaper]] after a certain date
* Game speed increase (through fast forward button or by pressing Tab)
* Plant a random tree type
* [[en/Manual/Hotkeys|Hotkeys]] for almost every action
* [[en/Archive/Community/Internationalization|Translations]] into a multitude of languages, selectable in-game at any point.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF|Loading new graphics sets]]
* Bring up an [[en/Manual/Extra Viewport|extra viewport]] showing any part of the map
* Color-coded vehicle profits
* Invalid orders in a vehicle's schedule are highlighted in red and generate a warning
* Option for percent-based service intervals. Send a vehicle to depot after it has lost X% of its reliability
* All TTDLX save games are supported (.SS1, .SV1, .SV2, .SV0, .SS0). 
* High score table

For details of every change, see [[en/Archive/OpenTTD/Main Page]]