These pages are used not only to collect interesting feature suggestions to openttd, but also to discuss their effects on the game or on the game play. Sometimes features seem to be nice but have some unwanted side effects on closer view.

Other resources on bug tracking/feature suggestion
* http://bugs.openttd.org/
* http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=55
* irc://irc.oftc.net/openttd
* WIP [[en/Archive/Community/Requested features]]


== collection of feature concepts and patches out there ==

=== better terraforming ===
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=19311 45° rotated rectangle clearing / leveling patch]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=14264 Level Land tool (out dated)]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=35627 Advanced Terraform - Drag and Draw]
* open questions
:* drawing better than 45° rectangles?
:* are vertical/horizontal tracks "wanted" in a game?
::* To cross them you need longer bridges/tunnels.
::* To follow the opponent's vertical tracks is more space consuming than following diagonal tracks.

=== town growth ===
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=37158 Town growth based on passenger/mails/goods]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=21514 City growth more challenging (based on passenger/mail)]

=== track building ===
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=31765 improved "select bridge" menu (many ideas how to fix it)]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=25037 copy&paste]
* modify "allow removal of more town-owned roads": make the now removeable pieces much more expensive (price, town rating)

=== vehicle control ===
* Orders GoTo button active: ctrl+click the station to set the order entry to "full load" {{en/Flyspray|1194}}
* Orders Window: GoTo button stays active (locomotion like behavior)
** On open the Orders Window: Goto button is activate

* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=33524 Timetable based separation patch]

* [[en//FlexibleVehicleList]]
:* naming (and selection?) of shared orders (e.g. "Line 01"): these are actually group names
:* "sell network", "rent network", "share network"
::: nice on populated maps

* automatic rail type upgrade/conversion for trains WIP {{en/Flyspray|1859}} 

* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=33418 close airports]

* buses / trucks need only half or quarter the profit of other vehicles to get full player rating! (otherwise you would sell almost every truck/bus service in the end of the game to get full score).

=== news ===

* news on average speed records like in locomotion, affects
::news
::maybe company performance
::maybe station rating, town rating

* news on changes in the company league table (player performance rating)
* overloaded news queue, out dated messages should be filtered

=== GUI ===

* improved station dialog: show ratings and accepted cargo in one and the same window (no clicks needed to switch the views)
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21079 longer history of finances]

=== multiplayer ===
* players action history
::viewable for team members
::viewable for admin for every guy (to kick annoying players)

=== misc. ===
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=36107 YAPP - Yet Another PBS Patch]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=33501 new passenger destinations]
* [http://bugs.openttd.org/task/954 subsidiaries for mail]