== Effect spawning model ==

(implemented in r26747)

This controls when the vehicle emits a visual effect. The NewGRF can choose from a fixed set of models; more might
be added in the future, but since this is performance critical NewGRFs cannot define their own models.

The spawning model is choosen via callback 10 resp. the properties mentioned there.
Additional to the existing return values, these new values are available.
The triggers for calling the callback and caching the result remain unchanged.

* 40: No effect
* 41: Advanced effect, 'steam' model
* 42: Advanced effect, 'diesel' model
* 43: Advanced effect, 'electric' model
* 44..7F: reserved
* C0..FF: trains only: same as above, but with powered wagons

The spawning models match the classical visual effects:
* Steam (41): Gradually less effects when approaching max speed
* Diesel (42): Effect proportional to acceleration, no effect when idling at top speed
* Electric (43): Random effect, gradually less likely when approaching max spped


== Advanced effect creation ==

When 'advanced effects' are enabled, each time the vehicle wants to create visual effect, callback 160 called.
The callback decides the position and look of the effect.

This callback is also called when a vehicle breaks down to decide the breakdown effect.
This is enabled by setting the current "disable breakdown effect" flag (which will be renamed).
Since callback failure means no effect the behaviour is compatible.

Input:
* Variable 10, bit 0-7:
*: 00: Visual effect (implemented in r26747)
*: 01: Breakdown effect (not yet implemented)
*: xx: reserved
* Variable 18:
*: 32 random bits

Result:
* Bits 0..3: Number of effects to spawn, details specified via registers 100+x (implemented in r26747)
* Bit 13: Train and RV only: Position effect relative to vehicle center instead of relative to vehicle sprite. (identical for vehlength 8/8) (implemented in r26747)
* Bit 14: Disable auto-rotation of effect position wrt. vehicle orientation (implemented in r26747)
* <strike>Bit xx: Cache callback result until next call to CB 10</strike> (will cause desync trouble due to random var18)

CB Failure: Draw no effect

Registers 100+x: Define x-th effect.
* Bit 0..7: Effect type
*: 00..EF: Custom effect (not yet implemented)
*: F0..FF: reserved, except
*: F1    : default 'steam' (implemented in r26747)
*: F2    : default 'diesel' (implemented in r26747)
*: F3    : default 'electric' (implemented in r26747)
*: F6    : default 'breakdown smoke' (implemented in r26747)
*: FA    : default 'broken aircraft' (implemented in r26747)
*: FF    : no effect (implemented in r26747)
* Bit  8..15: Longitudinal resp. X position (signed) (implemented in r26747)
* Bit 16..24: Transversal resp. Y position (signed) (implemented in r26747)
* Bit 25..31: Z position (signed) (implemented in r26747)

Note:
* Longitudinal/transversal resp. X/Y is decided by result bit 14 for all effects.
* The magic numbers F0..FE match the order of the existing effect vehicle types

== Custom effects ==

(not yet implemented)

When returning a custom effect from CB XXX, the effect is resolved similar to the rotor sprite of helicopters using
an 'self' wagon-override.

* The effect vehicle has no access to the original vehicle; the vehicles are independent.
* Variable 10 identifies the vehicle effect.
** Lowest byte:
**: 01: Rotor sprite
**: 02: Visual effect
**: 03: Breakdown effect
** Second byte:
**: Custom effect ID as returned by CB XXX
* Vehicle direction of original vehicle is preserved (affects var 9F and selection of sprite from spriteset

TODO Is there some better variable other than second byte of var 10?

Animation:
* For visual and aircraft breakdown effects the effect plays the animation once; after the last frame the effect is destroyed.
* For ground vehicle breakdown effects the effect animation is looped until the breakdown is over; the animation does not necessarily end with the last frame.
* The animation frame specifies which 'moving' spriteset is drawn.
* The amount of 'moving' spritesets in the Action2 specifies the length of the animation.

TODO: Is using the number of 'moving' spritesets clever? Or should there be an explicit Action 0 property? And some other variable for the frame? The advantage of this is, that the effect vehicle can cache the Action2 and does not have to call the A123 chain for every frame.


Animation physics:
* There are 2 Action 0 properties to control the movement and speed of the animation
* Propery YYY: Animation speed
*: Format:  n ( speed offset )...
{| |-
|n||B||Number of effects (number of speed/offset pairs to follow)
|-
|speed||B||Number of ticks between animation frames
|-
|offset||B||Number of ticks between spawning of the effect (frame 0) and start of the animation (frame 1)
|}
* Propery ZZZ: Z movement
*: Format:  n ( speed offset )...
{| |-
|n||B||Number of effects (number of speed/offset pairs to follow)
|-
|speed||B||Number of ticks between changes to the Z position.
:  < 0: Decrement Z every -speed ticks
: == 0: No movement
:  > 0: Increment Z every speed ticks
|-
|offset||B||Number of ticks between spawning of the effect and first Z change
|}

== Default effects ==

{| border=1 |-
!Effect
!colspan=5|Position
!colspan=2|Animation speed
!colspan=2|Z movement
|-
! !!L!!T!!X!!Y!!Z!!speed!!offset!!speed!!offset
|-
|Steam
|rowspan=3|-8..7
|rowspan=3|0
|rowspan=3|
|rowspan=3|
|rowspan=3|10
||16||8||8||4
|-
|Diesel||8||1||4||0
|-
|Electric||3||2||0||0
|-
|Air breakdown||
6 (NW, NE, SE, SW)<br/>
5 (N, E, S, W)
|0|| || ||2||16||8||4||0
|-
|Ground breakdown|| || ||4||4||5||8||0||0||0
|}