While a [[en/Archive/Community/Community Integrated Version]] build is accepting submissions, the following rules should be observed.

* Discussion about how the project is run should be kept in the main thread on [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=36547 tt-forums.net]. The build thread should only contain posts that are specifically related to the build itself.
* Patches must be submitted to the build thread as an attachment. 
* Submitted patches should be updated to the current Trunk at the time of submission. If a patch is modified and re-submitted, it should again be updated to the current trunk. 
* Submissions must be licensed under the GNU GPL, so that the will be compatible with the OpenTTD license. Patches in general are considered a derived work of OpenTTD and therefore if distributed must be licensed under the GPL.
* If a submitted patch creates an unresolvable conflict, with a previously submitted patch, and the submitter or author is unable to assist in resolving the conflict, the earlier submission will be kept and the later submission will be rejected. This is to encourage early submission. Most conflicts are resolvable.
* Submitted patches must contain code and a configuration option that allows them to be disabled, or they must accept settings that allows for original behavior.
* Patches submitted after the submission deadline for the given build will not be included.
* Submitters / Authors should be willing to provide reasonable assistance if needed. If the patch can not be successfully integrated, or contains a serious bug and help is not available, it may be removed from the build.
* Submissions are strongly encouraged to conform to the OpenTTD [[en/Development/Coding style]].
* Patches accepted for the current build are explicitly not included in the next build. The patch must be updated and resubmitted for inclusion in future builds.
* The processes for creating CIV builds is evolving and these rules may need to be amended.