[[Category:en/Development/Compiling OpenTTD]][[Category:en/Archive/Program Descriptions]]
Eclipse is plugin based IDE for many languanges. If you want to use it to develop or compile OpenTTD, you have to install some additional plugins.
__NOTOC__
== Eclipse ==
You can [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ download Eclipse] and install it on your computer, but eclipse is originally made for java developement and needs additional plugins to be useful for C/C++ development. 

=== C/C++ Development Tools Plugins (CDT) ===
This plugin is working towards providing a fully functional C and C++ Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for the Eclipse platform. 
;Eclipse 4.x
* New Eclipse install
** Download and install the latest Eclipse CDT package from https://eclipse.org/cdt/downloads.php 

* Existing (non CDT) Eclipse installation
** Start Eclipse, go to the Help menu->Install New Software ...
** Refer to https://eclipse.org/cdt/downloads.php for the latest repository
** Enter the repository from previous step into the 'Work with' field of Eclipse's Install dialog, press enter.
** Select 'C/C++ Development Tools' from the 'CDT Main Features' category, click Next
** Click 'Finish' on the Install Details page. 
** Allow installation to complete and click Yes on the Eclipse restart dialog.

;Eclipse 3.x
* Existing (non CDT) Eclipse installation
** Start Eclipse, go to the Help menu->Software Updates->Find and install.
** Select "Search for new features to install".  
** Select "Callisto Discovery Site" ("Europa Discovery Site" for 3.3), leave "Ignore features not applicable to this environment" checked and press Next.
** Select any server and press Ok.
** Goto "Eclipse C/C++ Development Tools" and check the last version of CDT (currently CDT 4.0.3) and click Next
** Accept the license and press Finish.
** Follow the dialog prompts, and restart Eclipse. That's all there is to it!
* If there are any problems downloading, you can get the plugin as a zip file from http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/

=== Subclipse ===
This plugin adds Subversion integration to the Eclipse IDE.

;Eclipse 4.x
* Start Eclipse, go to the Help menu->Install New Software ...
* Enter the following update site into the 'Work with' field of Eclipse's Install dialog, press enter.
*:<tt><nowiki>http://subclipse.tigris.org/update</nowiki></tt>
* Select 'Subclipse' from the 'Subclipse Plugin' category, click Next
* Click 'Next' on the Install Details page. 
* Accept the license terms and click Next.
* Accept the unsigned content warning when presented.
* Allow installation to complete and click Yes on the Eclipse restart dialog.

;With Eclipse 3.x
* Start Eclipse, go to the Help menu->Software Updates->Find and install. Then add the update site
*:<tt><nowiki>http://subclipse.tigris.org/update</nowiki></tt>
* Obey the dialog prompts, and restart Eclipse. That's all there is to it!
* if something goes wrong, check this out http://subclipse.tigris.org/install.html

== C/C++ compiler ==
To compile OpenTTD on Windows you also need to install a [[en/Archive/Compilation and Ports/Compiling on Windows using MinGW|MinGW]]

== See also ==
* [http://www.eclipse.org eclipse.org]
* [http://www.eclipse.org/cdt/ CDT project]
* [http://subclipse.tigris.org/ Subclipse project]