[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/FAQ OpenTTD versions]]
{{en/Warning|This page is still under review, and may contain inaccuracies}}
OpenTTD is a constantly evolving project, with new features, options, and improvements becoming available regularly.  While the frequent addition of "new toys" to play with is a boon to OpenTTD veterans, it can be quite confusing to the OTTD newcomer what version has what, which they should install, and what to expect in terms of stability from each build.

=== "Nightly?"  "RC?"  "Trunk?"  What?===
Understanding the terms the developers use to refer to different "versions" of OpenTTD is key to getting the features (along with the stability) you want in your game.

====Build====
A "build" is a generic term that simply refers to a particular version of the game.  Builds can be official, stable versions of OpenTTD, or the absolute latest (perhaps buggy) content available.  If you are technically inclined, you can even compile your own, customized build with different combinations of all features available.

The term "build" will be used throughout the rest of this document to refer to a version of the game.

====Official Release (''Edit required: is this really the correct term?'')====
An "official release" is just that -- a stable, complete release of the game.  While there may be minor bugs fixes applied to an official release, it is expected that there will be no significant changes to this build of the game, and any addition of new features will come in a future version.  

An official release of OpenTTD is just like the release of any software package, and is numbered accordingly.  For example, the latest official release of OpenTTD is 0.4.8 (as of Feb. 8, 2007).

====Release Candidate (RC)====
You can think of this as a proposed official release.  A Release Candidate build is an official release in the making.  While minor features may be added to an RC, for the most part, the feature list is frozen.

What separates an RC from an official release is simply the amount of testing and bug fixing left to do.  An RC can be expected to be fairly stable, but there still may be bugs with certain functionality.

A Release Candidate is numbered as such: 
''[Release version] RC[Candidate number]''

So, for example, the latest RC of OpenTTD is ''0.5.0 RC5'' (as of Feb. 8, 2007).

RCs should always be fairly stable, so if one is available, it is recommended to use it rather than miss out on its new features by reverting back to an "official release".  An RC is simply an official release with a bit of polishing needed.

====Nightly Build (Nightly)====
"Nightly builds" are generally works-in-progress.  A nightly will contain OpenTTD's cutting-edge features (usually features planned for the next Official Release), but can expected to be unstable and buggy.  Nightlies have the potential to corrupt your saved games, so you should backup all your important data files before installing a nightly build.

As the name suggests, nightly builds are compiled frequently, and thus new features become available in OpenTTD on a regular basis.  If you find yourself hearing about a feature of OpenTTD, but don't see it in your version, it was most likely released in a nightly build.  Weigh the risks (which are substantially lowered by backing up your data -- get the hint?  :-)  ), and install a nightly if you want a feature not yet available in an Official Release or an RC.

Note: a nightly build should always be installed ''over the top of a stable build''.  In other words, install an Official Release (or RC) first, then install a nightly over it.

''TO-DO: Describe the installation and uninstallation process for nightly builds''

Nightly builds have a different numbering schema than Official Releases do.  A nightly version will be numbered like:
''r8642''

====Trunk====
For the most part, the term "trunk" is synonymous with "nightly build".  If a particular feature is described as "in the trunk", it simply means that feature is available in a nightly.

====Branch or SVN Branch====
Usually an "SVN Branch" is created for a specific feature, feature set, or functionality that is being developed as a candidate for inclusion in the trunk (and eventually in an Official Release), but is still very much "on probation".  SVN branches have not been tested with the other, latest features of OpenTTD, and therefore may corrupt or undo the work other developers have done.  As the name "branch" implies, these bits of code come from the same source as other development efforts (think of this as the "limb"), but are being worked on separately.

If an SVN branch can be verified by other developers as stable both within itself and in conjunction with features being developed elsewhere, the branch may be later merged back into the effort as part of a nightly.  Until this is confirmed, however, there are no guarantees that features from one branch will work with those from another.  It is recommended that if you want to utilize features being developed in an SVN branch, you start with the build at which point the SVN branched off, and then install the code from the branch.

So, for example, if the latest nightly version was released on Friday, but the SVN branch code has been a separate development effort since Monday, you should work from the nightly that was released on Monday, and then install the SVN branch atop it.

As you can see, this is a feature tradeoff -- you get the feature(s) in the branch that you want, but you probably do '''not''' get the latest features released in the main branch.

Just like nightlies, SVN branches should be expected to be buggy and perhaps unstable.  In addition, SVN branches typically have been subjected to less testing than the main branch (i.e. fewer sets of eyes have looked at the code), which makes them potentially even less stable.

====MiniIN====
This term refers to bits of code that were also separate from the main branch.  However, this has been phased out, and will soon no longer exist.

''TO-DO:  I'm fairly sure that description is inaccurate.  Could someone correct me?''

===Which version of OpenTTD should I install?===
Start with the latest Official Release (or Release Candidate, if there is one).  Go to the [http://www.openttd.org/downloads.php OpenTTD Downloads page].  The latest stable version should always be listed there.

Many people are satisfied with the Official Releases.  If, however, you hear about a feature you'd like to have, then [http://www.openttd.org/nightly.php download the latest nightly] on top of your stable version (remember, back up your saved games!)

Only if you feel like you've really got this version thing down (in which case, why are you reading this?) should you try to install an SVN branch build.

===I heard someone talking about [x feature].  Why don't I have that in my game?===
You have a different build installed.  Many of the newest (and sometimes coolest) features are only part of a nightly (i.e. in the Trunk) at this point, though they hopefully will be part of a future Official Release.

===How do I keep track of what features are where?===
* An overview of major features included or planned in Official Releases can be found under [[en/Archive/Lists/Roadmap]]s
* Details of recent changes to the trunk are [http://cia.navi.cx/stats/project/OpenTTD here]

===Where can I download the build I want?===
* [http://www.openttd.org/downloads.php Official Releases]
* [http://www.openttd.org/nightly.php Nightly builds]