[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement FAQ]]
{{en/Archive/Community/8bpp Graphics Replacement}}
These are some commonly asked questions, and their answers, about the 8bpp graphics replacement project.
{{en/Note|To request or discuss graphics replacement and advanced features please use the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f&#61;36&t&#61;35310 forum thread]. To discuss this page please use the [[Talk:{{PAGENAME}}|talk page]].}}

__TOC__

==General==
===What is the aim of this project?===
OpenTTD currently relies on restrictively copyrighted (= "All rights reserved.") graphics, this project aims to produce and distribute graphics without such restrictions. That means media which is licensed as free software/open-source or free media (like some of the CreativeCommons licenses). As such the data is still under copyright, but this time it will not impose restrictions. This project is named "OpenGFX".

===What is the current activity/progress of the project?===
The project is currently very active, and has produced sprites for approximately 75% of the 6990 sprites which need to be replaced. The latest developments can be followed at the two tracking tables.

===What is "OpenGFX"?===
OpenGFX is a short and snappy name given to alpha and beta 8bpp graphics replacement newGRFs to make them easy to find in the newGRF menu. It may be the "brand" of the final graphics release.

==Contributions==
===How can I contribute?===
We are looking for graphics and coding contributions. If you have graphics or a [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] you think may be of use post it at the discussion forums for us to have a look at and include. If you would like to help coding check the tracking table and discussion for graphics which have not yet been coded, code them, and post the completed newGRF.

===What credit will I get?===
Currently all contributors to a newGRF get credit in the newGRF description.

===Who updates the tracking table?===
Everyone! If you notice something is missing please add it!

==Alpha, Beta and Final Versions==
===What is the "version structure"?===
*"Alpha" releases are work in progress newGRFs which are posted on the discussion forums. These typically contain graphics for a single object, for example a train or a building.
*"Beta" releases are combined alpha newGRFs which are also posted on the discussion forums. These contain a collection of complete graphics for a group of objects, for example the terrain or infrastructure.
*"Final" releases will be a complete collection of all sprites needed to run OpenTTD. No final releases are available yet.

===Where can I find beta and alpha versions?===
Check the discussion forums for the latest developments in the graphics development. The tracking table should also be kept up to date with the latest downloads.

==The final release==
===What structure will the final release take?===
There will be two "sets" of GRFs in the final release:
*trg1r.grf, trgcr.grf, etc. and openttd.grf - "Open" versions of the original graphics which may be used in place of the original graphics files.
*Enhanced features newGRFs - A collection of newGRFs which enhance OpenTTD with new vehicles, buildings, etc. in the style of the new graphics.

===Will there be any new vehicles?===
See [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement FAQ#will-there-be-any-enhanced-features|Will there be any "enhanced features"?]].

===Will there be any "enhanced features"?===
Yes. Enhanced features will be provided in two ways:
*"Eyecandy" features will be included as part of openttd.grf
*Gameplay enhancing features, new vehicles, buildings, etc. will be provided as separate [[en/Manual/NewGRF]]s.

===What happens after the final release?===
We make the graphics better! The intention is the project will continue, continuing to improve graphics and add more enhanced features.