[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement]]
''« Back to [[en/Development/NewGRF/Main Page]]''
----
{{en/Archive/Community/8bpp Graphics Replacement}}{{en/Current}}

This is the main tracking table of the 8bpp Graphics Replacement Project. The ultimate aim of this project is to have a full replacement set of graphics, so that OpenTTD can be distributed freely without the need of the copyrighted graphics from the original Transport Tycoon Deluxe. The table below indicates what's done and what's being done. There is also a tracking table for [[en/Archive/Community/Advanced Graphics Replacement Features|advanced features for the new graphics]].
This page lists all missing graphics that will need to be drawn for a total graphics replacement and shows their status in the tables below. If you want to draw something then add your name to the appropriate section and change the status to Work in Progress, <code><nowiki>{{WIP}}</nowiki></code>. When you are finished, change the status to Done, <code><nowiki>{{Done}}</nowiki></code> and link to the graphics published at [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=38122 TT-Forums].

The latest progress can be followed in the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=38122 Transport Tycoon Forums]. This wiki article will generally be the most up to date status of the project. See [[#downloads]] below on how to get the latest alpha release.


__TOC__


==Progress==

There are 6990 sprites to be replaced in the original TTD grf files.
*Project started on December 13th 2007
*As of January 11th 2008 2756 sprites have been released in form of [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] files. This constitutes almost 40% of original sprite count.
::Key areas needing work are GUI, bridges, buildings and industries. Other infrastructure and the landscape are largely complete.
*As of Febuary 14th 2008 approximately 400 more sprites have been released, bringing the total to around 3100. Major additions were made to the replacement of sprites from openttd.grf.
::Key areas needing work are still GUI, bridges, buildings and industries. Vehicles are currently progressing steadily.
*As of May 7th 2008 much more work has been done on graphics, although little has been coded. Town buildings and vehicles have been progressing steadily.
*As of July 19th 2008 a heavy exam term seems to have taken its toll on the rate of contributions. Now summer is here hopefully things will pick up again! The latest big update is the new bridges (~300 sprites) which puts the project over the half way mark!
*As of August 13th 2008 a the summer spirit has kicked in! Major contributions include a complete set of trains and carriages (thanks to DanMacK, Purno and Uzurpator), European tycoon faces (thanks to Ben_Robbins_), airport sprites (thanks to Skidd13), all boats (thanks to lead@inbox) and depots, company headquarters, several more industries and almost all the GUI (thanks to Zephyris). This puts the project at around the 3/4 mark with approximately 75% of trg1r complete and nearly 100% of trgcr.grf and trghr.grf complete.
::Key areas for more work are town buildings and aeroplanes. Once the "conventional" climates are finished the focus will shift to toyland.
*As of September 9th 2008 great progress has been made in the effort to code OpenGFX into it's final format. Opengfxcr.grf and opengfxhr.grf (as replacements for trgcr.grf and trghr.grf) are 100% completed. Opengfx1r.grf is completed for nearly 90%. Work on opengfxw.grf (as replacement for openttdw.grf) has started.
::The project is now completed for 74% of a total of 6992 sprites, or 89% of 5635 sprites if not counting toyland.
::Key areas needing work on opengfx1r.grf are the remaining town buildings and monorail and maglev vehicles.
* As of October 21st 2008 a new milestone has been reached: The first GPL'ed release of OpenGFX!
* On January 3rd 2009 Alpha 4.0 has been released. This alpha version contains all toyland graphics done so far, putting the complete project at the 89% done mark.

==Downloads==
OpenGFX is available in many formats. The recommended format is the final grf format, as this can serve as a full replacement for the original TTD graphics. It's also [[en/Manual/Multiplayer]] friendly because it lets the user decide whether or not to use OpenGFX, regardless of the [[en/Manual/NewGRF]]s used on the server.

===Latest release===
The current release can be found here:
'''[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162#p738219 DOWNLOAD OpenGFX]'''.

===Notes===
*OpenGFX is licensed under the [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html General Public License version 2.0].
*Several sprites are still missing from the current release. Missing graphics will show up as black rectangles in the game. Please do not report those rectangles as bugs, they're features.

===Timeline===
*Alpha versions: These versions will be released every now and then until we have all graphics completely finished.
*Beta versions: Fully functional versions which need to be bugtested extensively.
*Release candidate: Final version ready for inclusion with OpenTTD.

==Installation==
These instructions apply to the releases found in the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162#p738219 release topic] and partially to releases downloaded via the [[en/Manual/Online content|Content Service]].


* You need at least OpenTTD Nightly r14527 (http://nightly.openttd.org). OpenGFX will not work on the 0.6.x stable branch.
* It is assumed that you have correctly installed OpenTTD, either with or without the original TTD graphics.


In order to install the OpenGFX graphics for OpenTTD, follow the next steps:
# Copy the following files into your OpenTTD data directory (this step does not apply if you downloaded OpenGFX using the Content Service):
#* opengfx1r.grf
#* opengfxcr.grf
#* opengfxhr.grf
#* opengfxir.grf
#* opengfxtr.grf
#* opengfxw.grf
#* opengfx.obg
#: Your OpenTTD data directory is either located in the OpenTTD installation directory or in the OpenTTD directory in your user account's home directory.
# Run OpenTTD.
#: If the OpenGFX graphics show up correctly, you can skip the next steps.
# Open the openttd.cfg file (located in the OpenTTD directory) using your favourite plain text editor.
#: Locate the [misc] section and add the following line to the end of that section:
#:* graphicsset = OpenGFX
#: Save the changes you made and run OpenTTD.
# If that doesn't work, start OpenTTD from the command line using:
#* openttd -I OpenGFX
# If that doesn't work, make sure you're running at least OpenTTD Nightly r14527.

===Uninstalling OpenGFX===
This section applies if you downloaded OpenGFX and want to revert back to the default TTD graphics because the OpenGFX graphics are too nice for you. There are several ways of uninstalling OpenGFX, varying from deleting the files containing OpenGFX to instruction OpenTTD to use other graphics instead.

{{en/Note|If you downloaded OpenGFX you might find it annoying that it sets itself as default. This behaviour cannot be changed by the people who are creating the OpenGFX set and exists due to the way the game handles the selection of base graphics if the user didn't explicitly instruct the game what base graphics set to use. Please follow the steps below to either remove or disable OpenGFX.}}
====Removing OpenGFX====
This is the easiest way of uninstalling OpenGFX. The downside is that you will have to download it first if you want to use it again.
# If you downloaded OpenGFX manually: delete all OpenGFX related files from the OpenTTD data directory:
#* Delete opengfx1r.grf, opengfxcr.grf, opengfxhr.grf, opengfxir.grf, opengfxtr.grf, opengfxw.grf and opengfx.obg.
#* The OpenTTD data directory is either located in the OpenTTD installation directory or in the OpenTTD directory in your user account's home directory. Please see the OpenTTD readme for more information on search paths.
# If you used the [[en/Manual/Online content|Content Service]]: delete the OpenGFX tarball from the download directory:
#* Delete OpenGFX.*.tar.
#* The OpenGFX tarball is located in the /content_download/data which itself is located in the OpenTTD installation directory.

====Disabling OpenGFX====
Instructing the game what base graphics to use by default is the best way of disabling OpenGFX. It is adviced to follow these steps even if you deleted the OpenGFX files as per instructed in the previous paragraph, because the game will then never surprise you any more after downloading a new base graphics set.

# Open openttd.cfg. Openttd.cfg is either located in the OpenTTD installation directory or in the OpenTTD directory in your user account's home directory. If there's one in both, the one in the installation directory takes precedence, but editing both doesn't hurt either.
# Locate the [misc] section and add on of the following lines to the end of that section:
#: In case of the Windows version of the TTD graphics files (trg*r.grf):
#:* graphicsset = original_windows
#: In case of the DOS version of the TTD graphics files (trg*.grf):
#:* graphicsset = original_dos
#: In case of the German release of the DOS version of the TTD graphics files (trg*.grf):
#:* graphicsset = original_dos_de
# Save the changes you made.

==List of reported bugs==
The list below lists all bugs that have been reported which exist in the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162#p738219 latest version] of OpenGFX. Please note that black rectangles do not qualify as bug. All other things which look weird or are incorrect may be bugs and should be reported. Either report bugs in the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162 release topic] or add them to the list directly. Thanks!

{| border="1"
! Description !! Status !! Assigned to !! Comments 
|-
| other semaphore type missing || Confirmed || FooBar || <small>will be added as soon as we have proper PBS graphics</small>
|-
| some characters of font missing || Fixed || FooBar || <small>In alpha 4.0</small>
|-
| add ő-Ő and ű-Ű as extra characters || Fixed || FooBar || <small>In alpha 4.0</small>
|-
| desert/rock button in tropical scenario editor identical || Fixed || FooBar || <small>In alpha 3.0</small>
|-
| company indicator in performance window and other || Fixed || FooBar || <small>In alpha 3.0</small>
|-
| original map generator do not generate maps with land (due to black templates) || Confirmed ||  || <small>filling the sprites with noise does not work<br />Sprites 52-88 of trgir. For now use TerraGenisis instead</small>
|-
| Buttons on maglev toolbar for track in \ and _ direction mixed up || Fixed || FooBar || <small>In alpha 4.0</small>
|-
| Expand and Contract sprites for Advanced Settings menu missing || Confirmed || FooBar || <small>Will use sprites from regular openttdw</small>
|-
| Coal trucks (Balogh and Uhl) shows no full load || Reported ||  || <small></small>
|-
| The "trash can" for airplanes in the hangar window is way to high, resulting in a very high hangar window. || Reported ||  || <small></small>
|}

==Contributer Guidelines==
===Artwork===
New art is being drawn in the style of the original game, using the original 8bpp palette. The graphics should be a similar but distinct version of the object in question - no graphics may be copied at all from the original. The new sprites do not have to be the same size as the original, but need to be similar so as to fit into the game as expected. Where possible glitches/bugs in the original graphics should be avoided, for example the original snow line transition was in steps, whereas the new graphics give a smooth transition.

*Please note that the dimensions of a PCX file must be a multiple of four. Otherwise, GRFCodec will complain heavily, as will the coder.

===Coding===
This is a graphics replacement project, not an opportunity to code additional features into the game. Additional features for the game, such as more vehicles, new vehicle statistics, climate specific road markings etc. will have to be released as a separate GRF.

* Certain graphics should not be available in some climates, please use an Action 07 to skip those graphics. Never use the value 00 for <num-sprites>, but count the sprites and set the correct value. This makes it easier to compile small GRFs together into larger releases.
* If more than 254 (FE) sprites need to be skipped, you need set an Action 10 with label FF, and skip to that label in the Action 07 (thanks, DaleStan).
* Never skip an Action 08 or other actions that will not be copied to the final GRF.

==List of missing sprites==
Because the [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement Old Tracking Table|old tracking table]] doesn't list work areas on a per sprite basis, the tables below have been enstated to do so for the missing sprites. These tables proceed where the old tracking table terminated. The range numbers refer to the sprite numbers in trg*r.grf.
===opengfx1r.grf===
{| border="1"
! Range start !! Range end !! Numsprites !! Description !! Status !! Artist !! Comments !! Link
|-
|912||	989||	78||	African manager faces
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|1530||	1535||	6||	Office block
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|1552||	1553||	2||	Theatre
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|2353||	2364||	12||	Tropical lumber mill
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|2729||	2904||	176||	Monolev wagons
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|2981||	2992||	12||	Monorail engines
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|2993||	3016||	24||	Maglev engines
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4404||	4405||	2||	Cinema
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|4406||	4417||	12||	Mall
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|4434||	4445||	12||	Office blocks
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/WIP}}
||Zephyris||-||-
|-
|4462||	4465||	4||	Arctic church
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4471||	4476||	6||	Arctic hotel
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4480||	4492||	13||	Office blocks
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4574||	4576||	3||	Snow office blocks
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4579||	4579||	1||	Snow arctic church
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4583||	4587||	5||	Snow buildings
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4614||	4619||	6||	Modern office block
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4623||	4625||	3||	Modern office block
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|}
====Toyland features from trg1r====
{| border="1"
! Range start !! Range end !! Numsprites !! Description !! Status !! Artist !! Comments !! Link
|-
|1947||	2009||	63||	Toyland: trees
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||<small>Trees done: Lollipop, Liquorice, Umbrella, Mushroom, Cone, Sphere, Discs<br />Trees to do: Up-side-down cone, Parasol</small>||-
|-
|4627||	4674||	48||	Toyland: Buildings
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/WIP}}
||athanasios||<small>At least 4632 (currently working on), any assistance is welcome (if you plan to draw something here, first please contact me).<br />Buildings to do: 4629, 4632, 4638, 4653, 4656, 4662, 4665 and all construction stages (one wrapper design can be used for all buildings)</small>||-
|-
|4675||	4676||	2||	Toyland: Building ground tiles
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||<small>Photoshopped from Zephyris' road end tiles</small>||-
|-
|4677||	4685||	9||	Toyland: Sweet factory
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4694||	4694||	1||	Toyland: Statue
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4695||	4698||	4||	Toyland: Tea pot and piggy bank
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||||<small>Tea pot done by Zephyris (no construction stages)</small>||-
|-
|4699||	4707||	9||	Toyland: Toy shop
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4708||	4720||	13||	Toyland: Toy factory
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4737||	4742||	6||	Toyland: Fizzy drink factory
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4743||	4762||	20||	Toyland: Bubble generator
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||<small>Bubbles already drawn by Soeb.</small>||-
|-
|4763||	4767||	5||	Toyland: Toffee quarry
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|4768||	4789||	22||	Toyland: Sugar mine
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|}

===opengfx[c|h]r.grf===
* Complete.

===opengfxir.grf===
{| border="1"
! Range start !! Range end !! Numsprites !! Description !! Status !! Artist !! Comments !! Link
|-
|52||	88||	37||	Town construction support sprites for original mapgen
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|}

===opengfxtr.grf===
{| border="1"
! Range start !! Range end !! Numsprites !! Description !! Status !! Artist !! Comments !! Link
|-
|270||	270||	1||	Company statue
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|311||	316||	6||	Rail depot
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||-||<small>Using sprites from 'normal' climates</small>||-
|-
|317||	322||	6||	Monorail depot
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||-||<small>Using sprites from 'normal' climates</small>||-
|-
|323||	328||	6||	Maglev depot
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||-||<small>Using sprites from 'normal' climates</small>||-
|-
|341||	392||	52||	Aircraft
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|393||	400||	8||	Train engine
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||<small></small>||-
|-
|401||	416||	16||	Ships
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|417||	417||	1||	Heliplatform
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||-||<small>Using sprites from 'normal' climates</small>||-
|-
|418||	475||	58||	Airports
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||-||<small>Using sprites from 'normal' climates</small>||-
|-
|476||	491||	16||	Bus stop
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||-||-
|-
|492||	507||	16||	Truck stop
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||-||-
|-
|508||	513||	6||	Docks
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||-||-
|-
|514||	542||	29||	Company Headcastle
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|557||	586||	30||	Rail stations
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||<small>Recoloured versions of 'normal' stations</small>||-
|-
|601||	760||	160||	Road trucks
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|761||	840||	80||	Rail wagons
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|841||	872||	32||	Rail engines
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|873||	880||	8||	Monorail engine
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|881||	884||	4||	Maglev engine
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|}

===opengfxw.grf===
{|
!Description!!Status!!Artist!!Comment!!Link
|-
|PBS Graphics
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|Snowy temperate trees
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Unclaimed}}
||-||-||-
|-
|Fonts: additional special characters
{{en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Done}}
||FooBar||<small>Will be in alpha 4.0</small>||-
|}

==Category based tracking table==
The 'old tracking table' is deprecated and has been moved to [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement Old Tracking Table|this page]] for the main purpose of reference only. Please use the tables above to see what remains undone and claim what you want to draw there.

==See Also==
*[[en/Archive/Community/Advanced Graphics Replacement Features | Advanced Graphics Replacement - OpenGFX+]]
*The [[en/Archive/Old 32bpp/Old Graphics Replacement]] project

==Links==
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=38122 TT-forums development thread]
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162 TT-forums release thread]
*[http://wiki.ttdpatch.net/tiki-index.php?page=NewGraphicsSpecs NewGRFSpecs at TTDPatch wiki]
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=156006 PalConvert]