[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Internationalization]]


Want to participate? Want to translate to new languages? Head to the [http://translator.openttd.org/en/faq WebTranslator FAQ] read up on how to be allowed to translate. The official way of translating OpenTTD is [[en/Archive/Development/WebTranslator3]].

The language files have a special [[en/Archive/Source/OpenTTDDevBlackBook/Format of langfiles|Format]]

=='''List of supported languages'''==

==='''List of languages'''===
From now on, you can get the exact information here about missing/broken strings:
[http://translator.openttd.org/status WebTranslator status page].

=='''Other collaborations'''==
You can also help with translating this site into different languages:

[[:Category:en/Articles in other languages]]

[[en/Articles are being translated into other languages]]

*CA (Català/Catalan): També pots col·laborar traduïnt aquesta web a altres llengües. [[ca/Main Page]] 
*DE (Deutsch/German): Sie können auch mit der Übersetzung dieser Website in verschiedene Sprachen zu helfen. [[de/Main Page]]
*ES (Español/Spanish): También puedes ayudar traduciendo esta web a los distintos idiomas. [[es/Main Page]]
*FR (Français/French): Vous pouvez également aider à traduire ce site en différentes langues: [[fr/Main Page]]
*HU (Magyar/Hungarian): Ön is segíthet a fordítása ennek az oldalnak a különböző nyelveken: [[hu/Main Page]]
*RU (Русский/Russian): Вы также можете помочь с переводом этого сайта на другие языки. [[ru/Main Page]]

Consult the [[en/Wiki/Manual of Style#non-english-pages|Manual of Style]] before.

See [[:Category:en/Other languages|Other languages]] for '''statistics'''.

[[Category:en/Development]][[Category:en/Translation]]