[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/List of patches]]
This is a list of community made patches and patch packs.

==List of patches==

===Environment===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|More Height Levels|r23106|40844|v27 by ChillCore and ic111}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

===Industries and cargo===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|YACD - Yet Another CargoDestinations|r22532|54253|v2.3 by Michi_cc}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

===Towns===
===Construction===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|The Clipboard|r26400|45488|Build your infrastructure by copy/pasting pieces you already built. This is a rewrite of Copy&Paste patch.}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Polyline track tool|r26405|57080|Build tracks like drawing a "polyline" in some graphic editor: one click - one line connected to previous one.}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

===Signals===
===Vehicles===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|ATC speed control|r22604|52085|With this patch, you can emulate a certain behaviour of the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_Train_Control ATC system]}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Faster "go to" order creation|r23663, 1.1.4|54549|When creating orders, give "transfer and leave empty" by holding shift, "go via" by holding ctrl+shift}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Slim timetable separation|r25755|54332|Automatic separation of vehicles on a shared timetable}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

===Stations and Depots===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|NewGRF Airports (try 2)|r18xxx|45654|by Yexo}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}
===Eyecandy===
===GUI===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Show station coverage areas|r25578|44835|v1 by gehene}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Allow creation of new games from within a running game|r22731|56124|v2 by loclahost}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Multiplayer Server List Filtering|r22958, 1.2.3|43160|Filter, categorise and collect statistics about network games.}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

===Cheats===
===Other===
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop header}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Infrastructure Sharing|r24121|42254|current Version 2.1.2 (17th April 2012) [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1008843#p1008843 Direct link]}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop|Scripts on new day, month, year|1.0.3|49595|This is very simple patch to invoke your scripts on new day, new month and new year. Scripts been invoked after all routines (industries updates, finances updates and so on).}}
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop footer}}

==Patch packs==
{{en/Archive/Community/Lop pack header}}

{{en/Archive/Community/Lop pack|Hard Game patch pack (by Vaulter)|r25739|49359|v0.8.165<br /><br />taxes<br />Improved Breakdowns<br />
Adjust town passenger/cargo rates<br />Higher prices for construction near major cities<br />
Station loaders more distance from industry to station<br />repaircosts<br />
Airport upgrade<br />More console commands<br />
signaltunnel<br />More conditional orders<br />
Setting the length of the day<br />Lease transport<br />
Automatic timetables and separation<br />Very large maps<br />
Programmable Waypoints<br />leave-orders<br />
Automatic train control<br />Loans depends on company's history and value<br />
Traffic lights<br />Infrastructure sharing<br />
Auto advertising campaign<br />Colour rating in town label<br />
zoom64<br />Departure Boards<br />
Trains whistle when bridge and tunnels approaching<br />Watch company last action<br />
Russian town names<br />Add console command restart_ai<br />
Support daily autosave<br />Copy / Paste infrastructure<br />
Auto refit when build<br />Minimap Screenshot adds a console command `minimap`<br />
Invoke daily, monthly and yearly scripts<br />industry-stationnames<br />
townrating-indicator<br />Group info<br />
Group by properties<br />Trip History<br />
GUI tweaks<br />Shows station cover by CTRL+click on it<br />
Filter NewGRF files in build vehicle window<br />Polyline track tool<br />
forecast_display<br />Fancy fences<br />
Measurement tool<br />Cursor tracking viewport<br />
32bpp blitter with antialiasing
}}

{{en/Archive/Community/Lop pack|Chill's patchpack|r22555|47622|
More height levels<br />
Cargo distribution<br />
Automated timetable and seperation<br />
Larger maps<br />
Town rating colours<br />
Signals in tunnels and on bridges<br />
Chunnel<br />
Stuck trains<br />
Sprinkles -> variable daylenght, town cargo factor, misc, ...<br />
Programmable Signals<br />
Show system time window<br />
Copy_paste<br />
View and click vehicles in tunnels<br />
Close adjacent level crossing<br />
Measurement tool<br />
Tree line height<br />
Watch other company's gui<br />
Reduced tree growth patch<br />
Max_grf<br />
Company_profile<br />
Departure boards + 24h clock<br />
Timetable_change_all_stations<br />
Departure_vehicletimetableskip1<br />
Group_info<br />
Cmd_all_ai<br />
Infrastucture Sharing<br />
CTRL-cloning does not open new guis<br />
Improved breakdowns<br />
Trafficlights<br />
Towngrowth_needs_goods Modified and extended patch<br />
Configurable amount of desert tiles}}

{{en/Archive/Community/Lop pack footer}}

==How to use a patch==
If you are willing to use a patch from the list but don't know how, [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=21678 this forum thread] may be helpful to you.

==Adding your patch==
Generally anyone can add a patch to the list but you must follow these rules:
* '''The patch is consistent with the [[en/Archive/Community/Patch Checklist]].'''
* The patch adds new features. Bug fixes goes to the [http://bugs.openttd.org Flyspray].
* The patch is not trivial e.g. refinement of size of some window.
* The patch is not (yet) in the trunk. But don't remove patches from the list that got in, put ''"in trunk"'' into '''Against''' field.
* If the patch patch was not released yet, put ''"in progress"'' into '''Against''' field.
* Old, outdated patches may be added as well. Maybe someone will resurrect them.
* Use {{en/S|en/Archive/Community/Lop}} template to add a new entry. 
* If the patch is on the [http://bugs.openttd.org Flyspray] put an appropriate note (use {{en/S|en/Flyspray}} template).
* Try to keep your entries up to date.

==External links==
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=21678 Howto apply a patch/diff file]
* [http://bugs.openttd.org/index.php?type&#91;&#93;=4 Patches on Flyspray]

==See also==
* [[en/Development/Main Page#patches|Development Documentation]]
* [[en/Development/FAQ development#how-to-apply-a-patch|How to apply a patch]]
* [[en/Archive/Community/Patch Checklist]]
* [[en/Archive/Community/Requested features]]


[[Category:en/Development]]