[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Mini Integrated Nightly]]
The Mini Integrated Nightly is a special build of [[en/Manual/Main Page]], which incorporates patches which have yet to be approved for the main code.  This is the only way to <i>truly</i> get on the bleeding edge of development.  It is currently maintained by [[en/Richk67]].

{{en/Warning|The Mini Integrated Nightly is not in anyway supported by the developers and there is no guarantee that it will work with your save games.  In fact it may well destroy your save games, so always make a backup copy of everything!}}

==Description (non-technical)==
While there are a core set of programmer's who work on the major improvements and administer the project, anybody is allowed to code their own improvement for OpenTTD.  However, until that improvement gets approval from the core administers, it will not be integrated into the main game.  Until that time, the improvement generally sits in the development forum in the form of a source code [[en/Community/Patches/Patches]].

Anybody with a compiler can take a patch or any number of patches and create their own version.  But not all OpenTTD users know how to compile code.  The other problem of course is that patches often conflict with each other.

The answer: The Mini Integrated Nightly (or MiniIN for short)

The requirements are much less strict for a patch to be included into the MiniIN, so quite a few patches are included as quickly as possible. Small neat patches are more likely to be applied quickly - it has been known for a patch to be added within hours of its first posting on the forums.

The term "nightly" refers to the [[en/Nightly Builds]], which contain the latest changes made by the core programmers.  "Integrated" refers to all the patches being integrated into the nightly build.  "Mini" refers to the fact that this is the second generation of Integrated Nightly's, and there are a few requirements before a patch will be included.

==Downloading the Mini Integrated Nightly==
The latest build of the MiniIN can be found at the following address:
[http://nightly.openttd.org/MiniIN/files/] 
Be sure to download the version for your Operating System.


==Patches Included==
A few lists of patches included in or up for review for the Mini Integrated Nightly as of r5311(?). See [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=426901#426901 the forum] for a possible more up to date list.

If you download the source code, this list can be found in /patches/MiniINpatches.txt.

{| boarder=2
!style="background:pink;" | Currently in MiniIN or main trunk: 
|-
!style="background:#999999;" | Patch Name
!style="background:#999999;" | MiniIN Status
|-
|[[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another Pathfinder]]                           
|in trunk
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24991&highlight=stations New Stations]
|in trunk
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=22640 Sort Stations                 ] 
|in trunk
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24172 Planeset v1.2] 
|in trunk
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24842 NewGRF Aircraft Callback15]
|in trunk
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=25144 NewGRF Cargo Subtype Callback 19]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[[en/Archive/Manual/Yet Another PBS Patch|Path Based Signaling (PBS)]]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=23434 TerraGenesis Perlin]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=23434 More Trees (now part of TerraGenesis)]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24574 Snow in Temperate             ] 
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24283 6 New Airports] 
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=14819 Smooth economy 5147]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=19896 More Diesel Smoke patch v2.0b]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=427658#427658 Realistic Acceleration v2.0]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=450663 Signal Auto-complete]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24172 Planeset MiniIN specials]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24393 Waypoint stats] 
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=11942 Subsidiaries patch]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=426646#426646 Upgrade Bridges in situ]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24759 Advanced Town Handling]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21557 Town growth patch]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=22257 Dither Desert/Rocks]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=12193 Additional Orders]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=25562 Italian Town Names]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=22054 Toolbar fix]
|in MiniIN
|- 
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=25681 Purchase Window Refit Info]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=25037 Build Templates (Copy & Paste)]
|in MiniIN
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=25744 Loading Indicators]
|in MiniIN
|}

{|
!style="background:pink;" | Will be added soon:
|-
!style="background:#999999;" | Patch Name
!style="background:#999999;" | MiniIN Status
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24187 Speed Signs] 
|pending-Needs updating for YAPF
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=280398 PNGmap]
|pending
|-
|[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1227158&group_id=103924&atid=636367 Bridge Highlight (Diff Tracker Link)]
|updated by RichK67. pending
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21438 No tunnels under mines]
|updated by RichK67. pending
|-
|Continue Multiplayer Locally
|pending
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=22055 Disable repay loan]   
|pending
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=14890 Signal Gui (old link)]
|pending-Being updated by Hazelrah
|-
|[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1467270&group_id=103924&atid=636367 Origveh(Diff Tracker Link)]
|pending. RichK updated for more "real" truck names
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=14888 Past 2090] 
|pending
|}

{|
!style="background:pink;" | Likely to be added if updated by author:
|-
!style="background:#999999;" | Patch Name
!style="background:#999999;" | MiniIN Status
|-
|Tile quantity calculator
|new version in progress by MeusH. will check status
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=15502 Aircraft queueing] 
|updated to 4000+. awaiting confirmation it is current
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=21827 Yellow signal state]
|awaiting confirmation it is current
|}

{|
!style="background:pink;" | Unknown:
|-
!style="background:#999999;" | Patch Name
!style="background:#999999;" | MiniIN Status
|-
|Auto clean zero                
|unknown. may not be applied
|-
|Pause on no clients            
|unknown
|-
|Statistics tools               
|unknown
|-
|Copy orders from vehicle windows         
|unknown
|-
|Sort Vehicle options           
|unknown
|-
|Smallmap zoom                  
|unknown. updated feature being added to trunk
|}

{|
!style="background:pink;" | Unlikely to be added:
|-
!style="background:#999999;" | Patch Name
!style="background:#999999;" | MiniIN Status
|-
|Oil industries anywhere on map  
|unknown. TGPerlin does something similar
|-
|Diagonal Clearing               
|needs updating. clear_cmd.c changed a lot
|-
|No bells on crossings           
|settings vars need updating.
|-
|Pause on Dec 31                 
|will not be added
|}

==Developement==
This section contains the technical details for obtaining the code and creating special patches for the MiniIN

====Downloading the MiniIN code====
Using a [[en/Subversion]] program, you may download any revision of the code from svn://svn.openttd.org/branch/MiniIN 

====Create a patch for the MiniIN====
Ok, so you've created your very cool patch and want users to try it out?  Several people will look at it if you build your own executable, but even more will look at it if you include it into the MiniIN.  Here's how:

First, make sure that you meet the requirements for having your patch included:
:*Wait a month and test your patch before requesting inclusion in the MiniIN
:*No debugging code
:*"Idle" commented-out dev code removed
:*Any trailing spaces removed; regexp: /s/[\t ]+$//
:*Applies to MiniIN branch (resolve conflicts as best you can)
:*Compiles without any errors or warnings (other than non-fatal language warnings)
:*If you have an update, or a bug fix, please say *what* has changed or what the current version number is in the forum topic.

Next, creat an actual patch against the MiniIN (The steps below apply to users of TortoiseSVN):
:#Check out trunk at either pre-branch (4977), or current last sync (check the branch for details).
:#Apply patch
:#Use the Tortoise "Switch" option to point to /branch/MiniIN. It will run a merge, and you may get conflicts.
:#Resolve conflicts.
:#Create patch.

==External Links==
:Forum topic [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=24423&postdays=0&postorder=asc&start=0]
:SVN Branch [http://svn.openttd.org/cgi-bin/trac.cgi/log/branch/MiniIN]
:MiniIN Nightly Build [http://nightly.openttd.org/MiniIN/]
:Old Integrated Nightly forum topic [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=14849]

[[Category:en/Development]][[Category:en/Development/Compiling OpenTTD]]