[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Music replacement project]]
The OpenTTD Music Replacement Project is an on-going project dedicated to creating new Base Music packs for OpenTTD. 

==Purpose==
As OpenTTD is a clone of Transport Tycoon Deluxe, a lot of effort was put into replacing the original TTD graphics and sounds with new, open-source and freely-distributable graphics and sounds. As the project neared the 1.0.0 milestone at the end of 2009, however, there had not been a lot of discussion about replacing the TTD music in the same manner. The OpenTTD Music Replacement Project was started by Kevin Fields (kamnet) on the tt-forums.net message boards on December 26, 2009.

The OpenTTD Music Replacement Project is a community-based effort to provide new base music files which can be distributed with the game and completely free OpenTTD from any dependencies on having the TTD files in order to enjoy a full, robust game. 

==Contribution==
===Membership===
Any member of the OpenTTD community can contribute to the project. The projects are organized on the official OpenTTD forums at tt-forums.net, but collaboration and contributions can come from any player and any website or community. 
===Music Style===
There are no restrictions on the musical styles which may be included. 
===License===
The preferred license for releases is GNU Public License v2. This is the same license that is distributed with OpenTTD, and allows for files to potentially be distributed with the game without any conlicts. However, as each project is independently organized, and not all sources may be freely distributable, any license may be used so long as it is clearly stated and documented. 
===Copyright===
For music to be included and distributed, the author(s) must be the legal owners of the copyright for the files, or they must obtain permission from the copyright holders. 

Music itself has two different sets of copyright holders: the owner of the song (for example, the songwriter, or the music label) and the performer (the artist or composer of the music work). While many free MIDI music sites have music composed by individuals who distribute it freely, many of the songs are commercial works whose copyrights are retained by others, and have not given permission to the composer who posted it online. Even with original works posted online, you still must also have the permission of the composer to distribute them. 

When submitting music for inclusion in an OpenTTD Music Replacement Project set, please also include information about the copyright holder(s) of the music. 

==Releases==
*[[en/Archive/Community/OpenMSX]]
*[[en/Community/Base Sets/Scott Joplin Anthology]]
*[[en/SimCity 2000/Special Edition Music Set]]

[[Category:en/Community/Base Sets/Base Music]]