[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/OpenMSX]]
== Technical Details ==

The music files are MIDI files conforming to the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_MIDI General MIDI] standard, with an extension of .gm instead of .mid. The files are placed in the /gm folder, either in the base install for OpenTTD, or in the common installation folder. The game links to the music files with a .obm text file which contains the filename, the title, and an MD5 checksum for each file, along with other metadata not displayed in the game. A maximum of 31 MIDI files can be included in each pack - one title track that is played when the game starts, and 30 other tracks divided into the classic 'Transport Tycoon Deluxe' categories of Old Style, New Style and Ezy Street.  

== Licensing ==

After much spirited discussion, it has been decided that the MIDI files should be released under both the [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/sampling+/1.0/ Creative Commons Sampling Plus 1.0] license and the '''GPL v.2''' license. This is to ensure that all music is not only covered under the proper music license, but can also be included for distribution with other software bundles. 

Other collaborations for music packs are free to select their own licenses for independent distribution, but at this time for them to be included for distribution with OpenTTD and in-game download via BaNaNaS, the above licenses are the only acceptable ones.

== How to Participate ==

All users who are capable of creating MIDI music are encouraged to participate in the program. The traditional style of music used in TTD was blues and jazz. At this time the project is open to all submissions of any style for consideration. Additionally, if you know of a composer who develops MIDI music and may be willing to participate, such submissions are also open to consideration. Discussion is currently ongoing as to which styles will be used.

== Progress ==

'''OpenMSX Project Files (current version 0.1.0)''' 

The following files have been created, with clearance under both the GPL v.2 and Creative Commons Sampling+ 1.0 licenses. You can [http://bundles.openttdcoop.org/openmsx/releases/ download the pack] from BaNaNaS, and is also available for in-game download as of r19259 or later.

{| border="1"
|-
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=124409 Keep On Rollin] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=15350 Trolley Trev] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=857803#p857803 Discussion] 
|-
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=124730 Modern Motion] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=4751 Mr. Ksoft] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=859154#p859154 Discussion]
|-
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=123512 Smooth Groove] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=10881 Samwise] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=852323#p852323 Discussion]
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=124740 Little Blue Box Car] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=7796 Hazza] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=859185#p859185 Discussion]

|}

'''Other Files Contributed By Users For Consideration'''

{| border="1"
|-
|[http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=124739 Electric Caboose] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=7796 Hazza] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=859185#p859185 Discussion]
|-
| [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=124911 Stuff] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=10881 Samwise] || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=859977#p859977 Discussion]
|}

Several users have volunteered to use the original TTD music as inspiration for new tracks, since the originals cannot simply be re-recorded or used due to lack of licensing and sampling clearance. There will be a maximum of 31 tracks included in the core MRP. More MRP packs may become available in the future. 

{| border="1"
|+ Music tracks under re-inspiration
|-
! Song !! Assigned To !! Status !! Remarks
|-
|Main Theme || lucas
!class="wip" | In progress || -
|-
|Jammit || jvlomax
!class="wip" | In progress || -
|-
|Train Madness|| petert and Tom
!class="WIP" | In Progress || -
|}

== Signature ==

Go to [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=843964#p843964 this post] by petert to use the logo in your signature. There is also an [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=844223#p844223 OpenGFX version of the logo] (made by petert).

== External links ==
[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=46479 Music Replacement Project discussion]

[[Category:en/Development]]