[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/OpenGFX Readme]]
{{en/Archive/Community/8bpp Graphics Replacement}}
'''OpenGFX''' is a set of [[en/Archive/Community/Base graphics]] for [[en/Manual/Main Page]] and is the result of the [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement|8bpp Graphics Replacement Project]].

OpenGFX is an open source replacement for the original TTD graphics used by OpenTTD. The main goal of OpenGFX therefore is to provide a set of free base graphics which make it possible to play OpenTTD without requiring the (copyrighted) files from the TTD cd. This potentially increases the OpenTTD fanbase and makes it a true free game (with "free" as in both "[https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/free beer free beer]" and "[https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/open source open source]").

The OpenGFX base graphics set is currently not complete yet, but is already very playable.

<div style="float:left; padding-right: 10px;">__TOC__</div>

<div style="clear:left;"></div>
==Downloading OpenGFX==
OpenGFX is available from at least three locations. This readme will only cover the official download locations. We cannot support third party download locations and we cannot refund your money if you have paid money for OpenGFX.

===Getting a Stable Release===
There's two places where you can get the latest stable release:
* If you're new to OpenTTD and don't have access to the original TTD files, you'll have to download and install OpenGFX manually. This is really not that difficult as it may sound, so don't worry too much about that.
** '''Download location''': http://mz.openttdcoop.org/bundles/opengfx/releases/;
** '''Installation instructions''': [[#installing-opengfx-manually|Installing OpenGFX Manually]].
* If you already have OpenTTD up and running using the original TTD base graphics, the ingame Online Content service is the easy way to obtain OpenGFX.
** '''Download location''': use the ingame [[en/Manual/Online content]] service;
** '''Installation instructions''': [[#installing-or-updating-opengfx-using-the-online-content-service|Installing OpenGFX using the Online Content service]].

===Getting a Nightly Build===
* Just like OpenTTD, there are nightly builds of OpenGFX available as well. Every evening around 18:18 CEST a new build of OpenGFX is created automatically (if there's something new that is). Unlike stable releases these builds aren't tested to see if they work, but if a nightly doesn't work, it doesn't break anything either. Keep a stable or working nightly sitting in the /data dir and just delete a broken nightly to get OpenGFX working again.
** '''Download location''': http://bundles.openttdcoop.org/opengfx/nightlies/;
** '''Installation instructions''': [[#installing-opengfx-manually|Installing OpenGFX Manually]].

==Installing OpenGFX Manually==
'''1.''' First, make sure that you've [http://www.openttd.org/ downloaded] and [[en/Manual/Installation|installed]] at least '''OpenTTD version 0.7.0''' or a recent [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]].

'''2.''' Next, download the latest OpenGFX package. ([http://mz.openttdcoop.org/bundles/opengfx/releases/ stable] [http://mz.openttdcoop.org/bundles/opengfx/nightlies/ nightly])

'''3.''' Unpack the zip into the OpenTTD /data directory. There's no need to unpack the [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar (file format) tar file], so just leave it as it is.
Your OpenTTD /data directory is either located in:
* An OpenTTD folder in your user account's home directory:
** Windows: C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\My Documents\OpenTTD
** Mac OSX: ~/Documents/OpenTTD
** Linux:   ~/.openttd
* The OpenTTD installation directory.

'''4.''' Run OpenTTD. Chances are that you'll get an error about a missing 'sample.cat' file. If that is the case, follow the steps in the [[#sample-cat-error|sample.cat error section]] first before continuing here.

'''5.''' In the main menu of the game, click the ''Game Options'' button. The ''Game Options'' dialog will appear.

'''6.''' Select ''OpenGFX'' from the drop-down list below ''Base graphics set'' if that's not selected already (bottom left of window). Close the window using the &times; in the upper left corner.
* If you did not install the original TTD base graphics during the installation of OpenTTD, you can skip this step.
* If you installed the original TTD base graphics as well, this is where you can switch base graphic sets.

Now that wasn't so hard, was it? Anyways, if you're having trouble getting OpenGFX to work, please file a detailed report on what you did, what error messages you got and where you got stuck in the OpenGFX release topic at TT-forums: http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162

===Sample.cat error===
The sample.cat file contains the sound effects from the original TTD. OpenTTD requires that file to be installed correctly, otherwise the game will not start. What to do if you don't have that file? Read on! The solution is to create a dummy sample.cat file.

'''1.''' Browse to the OpenTTD /data directory.
* See step 3 of [[#installing-opengfx-manually|Installing OpenGFX Manually]] on where to find that directory.

'''2.''' Create an empty file with ''sample.cat'' as file name:
* Use your operating system's built in graphical tools, or;
* Use a command like ''$ touch sample.cat'' on the command line, or;
* Alternatively download an empty sample.cat file (http://www.openttdcoop.org/sample.cat) and place it in the OpenTTD /data directory.

'''Note:''' If you have the dummy sample.cat file in place the game still will give you an error about the file being corrupted. The difference this time is that you now ''do'' have an option to start the game: just click OK to continue! (Obviously, you don't have any sound effects with the dummy file.)

==Installing or Updating OpenGFX using the Online Content service==
This method uses the [[en/Manual/Online content]] service (BaNaNaS) to download OpenGFX. In order to use this, you need a working OpenTTD and again at least '''OpenTTD version 0.7.0''' or a recent [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]].

'''1.''' Start OpenTTD and on the main menu click the ''Check online content'' button. A new window will pop up.
* If OpenTTD doesn't start, follow the [[#installing-opengfx-manually|manual installation procedure]].

'''2.''' Find the OpenGFX entry from the list at the left. You can use the search box in the upper right corner of the window.

'''3.''' Click the little square in front of the OpenGFX entry in order to mark it for download.

'''4.''' Click the ''Download'' button in the bottom right corner. After download, close the open windows.

'''5.''' In the main menu of the game, click the ''Game Options'' button. The ''Game Options'' dialog will appear.

'''6.''' Select ''OpenGFX'' from the drop-down list below ''Base graphics set'' if that's not selected already (bottom left of window). Close the window using the &times; in the upper left corner.
* This is where you can switch base graphic sets.

==Project status==
OpenGFX is not completely finished yet and some graphics still are missing. 

The current status of the project can be found at the [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement|Graphics Replacement Tracking Table]] and/or the [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/opengfx/issues Issue Tracker].
A graphical list of sprites which need drawing can also be found [http://openttd.jaspervries.nl/opengfx/authoroverview/?feature=objectives| here]. It might not always be 100% up to date - so please check with the tracking tables mentioned above.

==Reporting bugs==
{{en/Note|Missing graphics show up in the game as black rectangles. Please don't report these black rectangles as bugs.}}

If you do spot any grapical bugs or glitches in the available graphics, please let us know! There are two ways to report bugs:
* Via the Issue Tracker: http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/opengfx/issues. You have to register there in order to submit a bugreport. This is also the place to check what bugs already have been reported or to check what's fixed or new for the next release.
* Via the OpenGFX release topic at TT-forums.net: http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=36&t=40162.


Either way, make sure the bugreport is useful. Provide as much information you can!

==License==
OpenGFX Graphics Replacement Set for OpenTTD
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 OpenGFX Authors (see below)

OpenGFX is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as 
published by the Free Software Foundation.

OpenGFX is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with OpenGFX; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
1 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.


===Obtaining the source===
The OpenGFX source is available in a Mercurial repository. You can download the source in bz2, zip or gz format from http://mz.openttdcoop.org/hg/opengfx, or you can use Mercurial to do an anonymous checkout from the same address , e.g. using
    hg clone http://mz.openttdcoop.org/hg/opengfx

==Credits==
OpenGFX is created by the following people (in reverse alphabetical order):

* Zephyris (Richard Wheeler)
* Varivar
* uzurpator
* Spaz O Mataz
* Soeb (Stanislaw Gackowski)
* skidd13 (Benedikt Brüggemeier)
* Roujin
* Red*Star (David Krebs)
* Raumkraut (Mel Collins)
* Purno (Mark Leppen)
* planetmaker
* PikkaBird (David Dallaston)
* northstar2
* Mr. X
* mph (Matthew Haines)
* mb (Michael Blunck)
* LordAzamath (Johannes Madis Aasmäe)
* lead@inbox (Serge Saphronov)
* Gen.Sniper (Tomas Kurowski)
* Irwe
* FooBar (Jasper Vries)
* EdorFaus (Frode Austvik)
* drginaldee
* DJ Nekkid (Thomas Mjelva)
* DanMacK (Dan MacKellar)
* buttercup
* bubersson (Petr Mikota)
* Born Acorn
* Bilbo
* Ben_Robbins_ (Ben Robbins)
* athanasios (Athanasios Arthur Palaiologos)
* andythenorth (Andrew Parkhouse)
* Ammler (Marcel Gmür)


* A detailed list of who worked on what is available in the file [http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/opengfx/repository/entry/docs/authoroverview.csv authoroverview.csv] in the source repository. 
* Thanks go out to the guys at [http://www.openttdcoop.org/ #openttdcoop] for providing the source repository and bug tracking services.

==See also==
* [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement]]
* [[en/Archive/Community/Graphics Replacement FAQ]]

[[Category:en/Archive/Community/8bpp Graphics Replacement]]
[[Category:en/Archive/Community/Base graphics]]