This page outlines the steps needed to figure out if your GRF files are missing with UNIX/Linux. '''This will NOT work with Windows'''.

==Bash Instructions==
Firstly open up a BASH shell. Go to your system menu (Ubuntu users, top of screen, Kubuntu users, KDE menu - Bottom left) and look for 'Terminal' or 'Konsole'.
Once open, type
 openttd
If a message about 'PATH' appears, type
 /usr/share/games/openttd
'''instead'''. Then look for any messages concerning GRF files. If it complains about missing GRF files, (like the example below) then please see [[en/Archive/Manual/Copying GRF to data folder]].

 eoin@MikeCatt:~$ openttd
 Your 'TRG1R.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'TRG1R.GRF' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'TRGIR.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'TRGIR.GRF' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'TRGCR.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'TRGCR.GRF' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'TRGHR.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'TRGHR.GRF' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'TRGTR.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'TRGTR.GRF' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'sample.cat' file is corrupted or missing! You can find 'sample.cat' on your Transport Tycoon Deluxe CD-ROM.
 Your 'OPENTTDW.GRF' file is corrupted or missing! The file was part of your installation.
 
 Error: Cannot open file 'sample.cat'
 eoin@MikeCatt:~$

If this is not what you saw, then please ask at the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=55 forums] for further help.