[[Translation:en/Archive/Community/Scenarios Team ToDo List]]
{{en/Note|1. There is another possible layout on the discussion page. Please give us your comments on which is better (or if you have any better ideas)
<br>2. This page needs filling.}}

Welcome to the [[en/Community/Scenarios/Scenarios Team]] ToDo list. Here is a list of the many things we need to work on in relation to the [[en/Community/Scenarios/Scenarios Team|scenarios project]].

== Instructions ==

When a scenario has been found please add it to the first category. For these the creator needs to be contacted (see below for standard message and please place a "C" next to it to notify that they have been contacted). Those with permission granted please move to the second category. When a scenario has been added please remove from the page. The scenarios that we are not allowed to add should be moved to the third category. Any work that is planned or ongoing to do with the database should be placed in the 4th category. Additionally, any work/threads in the forum should be added. 

== TT-Forum members we already have permission from ==

This list could be also found at this [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=569210#569210 forum post].

* Moriarty
* Ominus
* thebrightside
* George

== Scenarios Needing Permission ==

{|
|| '''Title''' || '''Author''' || '''Climate''' || '''Map size''' || '''Links''' || '''Remarks'''
|-
|| [[en/Alpine|Scenario:Alpine (v2)]] || Wolf01 || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24702 || -
|-
|| [[en/Barcelona]] || oboka || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24694 || -
|-
|| [[en/Delta]] || WJ || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24108 || Start year: 1940 
|-
|| [[en/German Rivers]] || Observer || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24172 || -
|-
|| [[en/Greener On The Other Side]] || Born Acorn || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24182 || -
|-
|| [[en/Industry Waters]] || Mr. X || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24134 || -
|-
|| [[en/Midtjylland indgrup]] || Boss || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24420 || -
|-
|| [[en/Oil]] || lucaspiller || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24194 || -
|-
|| [[en/Reservior Mayhem]] || Kjata || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24682 || -
|-
|| [[en/Scandinavia And Baltic 5]] || kemkim || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24669 || -
|-
|| [[en/XUberCity]] || Mr. X || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24141 || -
|}

=== Older versions ===

{|
|| '''Title''' || '''Author''' || '''Climate''' || '''Map size''' || '''Links''' || '''Remarks'''
|-
|| [[en/Alpine]] || Wolf01 || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24695 || -
|-
|| [[en/Ocean View]] || Moriarty || - || - || http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24105 || -
|}

== Scenarios Needing Adding ==

Below is a list of all missing maps that are released with OpenTTD so far. More details and links on authors and description will follow soon.
{|
|| '''Title''' || '''Author''' || '''Climate''' || '''Map size''' || '''Links''' || '''Remarks'''
|-
|| [[en/Africa and Middle-East]] || richk67 || Sub-Tropic || 1024x1024 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384666#384666 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=386740#386740 2], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=387841#387841 3], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=388552#388552 4] || Start Year: 1946, released with OpenTTD, based on real world
|-
|| [[en/Canyonero]] || richk67 || Sub-Arctic || 1024x1024 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=380697#380697 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384685#384685 2], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=388552#388552 3] || Start Year: 1935, released with OpenTTD, based on real world
|-
|| '''[[en/Community/Scenarios/Super Britania]]''' || George || Temperate || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=245236#245236 1]
| style="background: lightgreen" | Done
|-
|| '''[[en/Community/Scenarios/Dale of Scandy]]''' || George || Sub-Arctic || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=245234#245234 1]
| style="background: lightgreen" | Done
|-
|| [[en/Great Divide]] || Born Acorn || Sub-Arctic || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=237951#237951 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=391184#391184 2] || Start Year: 1961, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Dinora Islands]] || Michael Rippon (Bot_40) || Temperate || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=243890#243890 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=388895#388895 2] || Start Year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Archipelago]] || 0beron || Sub-Tropic || 512x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=270512#270512 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384679#384679 2], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=386927#386927 3] || Start Year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| '''[[en/Community/Scenarios/Toy Train]]''' || Purno || Toyland || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=385121#385121 1]
| style="background: pink" | Still missing a lot of info...
|-
|| [[en/Rusty Paradise]] || Scia || Sub-Tropic || 512x512 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384619#384619 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384818#384818 2] || Start year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Big River]] || Scia || Temperate || 512x512 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=355546#355546 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384620#384620 2], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=384818#384818 3] || Start Year: 1940, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Cliffhanger]] || Purno || Sub-Arctic || 256x512 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=330431#330431 1] || Start Year: 1970, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Mountain Pass]] || Korenn || Sub-Arctic || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=241870#241870 1] || Start Year: 1960, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Linkgame Islands 2004]] || "sign_de" || Temperate || 256x256
| style="background: pink" | no real links, just [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=242190#242190 this] || Start Year: 1960, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Volcano City]] ("The Big City") || lucaspiller || Temperate || 256x256
| style="background: pink" | no real links, just [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=242190#242190 this] || Start Year: 2000, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Greenistan]] || problematiQue || Temperate || 128x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=514457#514457 1] || Start Year: 1955, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Skadi Islands]] || Purno || Sub-Arctic || 128x128 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=539889#539889 1] || Start Year: 1960, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Wales and West England]] || Born Acorn || Temperate || 512x512 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=63311 1] || Start Year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Terra Incognita]] || fr_tycoon || Sub-Arctic || 256x256 || Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=540798#540798 1] || Start Year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|-
|| [[en/Polopolis]]
| style="background: pink" | <todo> || Temperate || 512x512 || || Start Year: 1950, released with OpenTTD
|}

Other maps from authors we already have permission from
{|
|| '''Title''' || '''Author''' || '''Climate''' || '''Map size''' || '''Links''' || '''Remarks'''
|-
|| [[en/Ocean View|Scenario:Ocean View (v2)]] || Moriarty || Temperate || 256x256 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24139 Map Download Link], Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=232607#232607 1], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=232807#232807 2] || Start Year: 1960
|-
|| [[en/Weblingnet Valley]] || Moriarty || Temperate || 256x256 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/download.php?id=24149 Map Download Link], Forum-Links: [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=232848#232848 1] || Start Year: 1960
|-
|}

== Scenarios with Permission Denied ==


== Work on the Database ==

Current goal: to have 100 maps in the database (Ideally at least one map for every size and climate combination)

=== Planned ===

* to add all missing maps that are released with OpenTTD releases so far
* review all other maps from Scenarios thread if they are worth adding
* define some rules which defines whether a map belongs to a certain category or to another (like quantity of towns in relation to map size)

=== Ongoing ===

* New Layout for the Scenario Template - still wip, please comment/suggest.

== Forum Work/Threads ==

* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=30482 Scenarios Team Thread (Old Name - New List of Scenarios)]

== Others ==

===New Scenario Namespace===

Now as we have the Scenario namespace all existing pages have to be moved to that namespace and new ones have to be created in it. Don't forget '''only''' the single scenario pages like [[en/Iceland]] should be moved, nothing more, nothing less.

:Done. -- Jokes Free4Me 07:29, 20 May 2007 (CEST)

===External scenario repository===

Well, since progress of creating an internal .scn file repo has been slow, we need an external solution for the time being (using tt-forums is clumsy at best). This has been talked about in the past. More info can be found at MeusH.

What we need:

* Subdomain of some sort. One no-brainer would be http://scenarios.openttd.org or http://scn.openttd.org (we have to wait for MeusH to provide this)
* Hosting with PHP & MySQL (I can personally provide these if need be)
* Code. (Kander voiced some interest in doing this?)

There is the matter of what we want &mdash;or need&mdash; the code to do. Personally I think a simple .scn file upload is sufficient. (No file database should be needed as we have everything here.) This should take 500 [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/LOC LOC], tops. That's about a day's work. Since this is a public and open service, certain security precautions should be taken (the coder should know what I'm talking about).

In the future I'm hoping this repo can be linked to the game somehow, to allow scenarios to be downloaded without browsing teh interwebs. This, however, is not on our featurelist yet.

<s>Please post your thoughts and voice your interest here.</s> Jupix 14:48, 7 May 2007 (CEST)

The discussion is ongoing in [[en/Archive/Community/Scenarios Team ToDo List Database]], please post there instead. Jupix 12:54, 8 May 2007 (CEST) 

:When my first attempt at hacking up something for this project began, I began from the idea of being able to search the scenarios using arbitrary criteria. From what I can gather from Jupix' comments both here and on [[en/Archive/Community/Scenarios Team ToDo List Database]], his idea of where this should move is more in the direction of being a file-hosting service, no frills. I'd love to get input from people on which direction they feel the external repo should move towards. (in case someone wonders: From a coder-commitment perspective, either way is fine with me - just want what is best for the openttd community) {{en/Archive/Community/Unsigned|Kander}}

:Just that nobody overlooked it, [[en/Archive/Community/Scenarios Team ToDo List Database|here]] is what Kander is working on. As I'm in a hurry atm, I'll add my thoughts/ideas later. Sleepie 15:19, 7 May 2007 (CEST)

== Contacting Scenario Designers ==
<div>
Dear <enter name>,

We, the Scenarios Team on the OpenTTD Wiki, would like to be able to add your scenario (<enter scenario name>) to our database. It is a new way of searching and storing scenarios. If you could reply to this message with either:

I give you permission to add <enter scenario name> to your database. Signed <enter name>

Or: I do not give you permission to add <enter scenario name> to your database. Signed <enter name>

Or any other response that you feel necessary. You may reserve the right to remove your permission at any point, just please contact one of us on the Scenarios Team or leave a message on the talk page. You do not have to add it yourself, though you are welcome. If you would like to provide a description please incluse that in your reply.

Thank you

<sender's name>
Scenario Team Member

P.S. Some links with background information: <br />
http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=30482 - Scenarios Team Thread on TT Forums<br />
http://wiki.openttd.org/index.php/Scenarios_Team - Scenarios Team page<br />
http://wiki.openttd.org/index.php/List_of_player-made_scenarios - Our database<br />
</div>