This page is used to gather ideas for a PHP/MySQL version for the Scenarios Database. Some valid concerns have been raised so far. Here's some information on the plans made so far. Feel free to add to this, reorder it, etc.

==Page Layout==
* Tries to blend in with http://openttd.org in terms of color and visual style.
* At the top is a horizontal menu with five buttons
** Search
** Browse
** Upload
** Login
** OpenTTD.org

===Search===
The Search screen provides access to the primary method of finding a specific scenario in the database. On the first pageload it shall show a form with all fields we store concerning scenario's (author, map size, setting, etc). On fields that are an ordered listing, a dropdown for specifying 'less then', 'exactly' or 'more then' will be present.

Input will either be dropdowns or 'google suggest' assisted text-input boxes.

After filling in some conditions to filter on (for example, 'Setting: Temperate', 'Map Size: at least 512 x 512', 'Author: Sleepie') and submitting the form, the page will reload. The form will be displayed again with the values set to what they were before the submit, and below the form a listing of scenarios will appear.

===Browse===
The browse 'button' will show the possible categories on-hover. These categories are created automatically based on tags that can be attached to scenarios, or can be built up from search queries (admins can get a 'Make Category' button on the search screen, perhaps?).

Clicking a category will bring up the search results view for that category. It may be a bit superfluous, but essentially offers direct access to predefined searches. Still need to refine this, and add more value over normal search, IMHO.

===Upload===
Upload allows people to upload scenarios to the database. This form will allow the uploader to specify information regarding the scenario that can be searched for. Three pieces of information and mandatory: Author, Scenario Name and 'Cleared for distribution'.

Uploading can be done anonymously, but an anonymous upload first needs to be cleared for public use by an authenticated user before it becomes visible.

===Login===
Registering and logging in allows additional privileges in the database - one is the above-mentioned clearing of anonymous uploads. Other possible privileges: mark scenario for deletion, add comments to scenarios. The basic idea is that the system should be as open as possible, only abuse-sensitive features will be locked down.

===OpenTTD.org===
A link back to the main OpenTTD site. If possible, it would be nice to have a link from OpenTTD to the Scenarios base as well, in order to gain public exposure.

==Technical Concerns==
The system will run as a set of PHP scripts acting on a MySQL database. Subsystems used: AdoDB for data layer, Smarty for presentation layer.

Question: Will the files be hosted on the server itself, or will there simply be URLs to external downloads?