[[Translation:en/Manual/Tutorial/Conclusion]]
{{en/Translation|origin= en/Manual/Tutorial/Conclusion
|from  = en
|to    = zh
|Percentage =1
}}
{{en/Tabs|5|5
|zh/Manual/Tutorial/教程|1. 开始<!--
-->|zh/Manual/Tutorial/公路运输|2. 公路运输<!--
-->|zh/Manual/Tutorial/铁路运输|3. 铁路运输<!--
-->|zh/Manual/Tutorial/航空运输|4. 航空运输<!--
-->|zh/Manual/Tutorial/结束语|5. 结束语}}
<div style="padding:.5em 1em 1em 1em; border-top:none; background-color:#f1f2fe; color:#000;">
{{en/Manual/Tutorial/Navigation}}
==Conclusion==
So, you have set up your first transport company and some routes. What now? Well, it's up to you - you can choose to build a thousand bus services all across the map. Or you could see a nice business opportunity involving a forest and a nearby sawmill. Who knows? Just make sure you keep your company running profitably, and perhaps you'll end up as the greatest Transport Tycoon come the year 2050.

===Next steps===
* The menu to the right of the article lists some more detailed tutorials, particularly for railways.
* Read a detailed description of the [[en/Manual/Game interface|interface]] or even more about [[en/Manual/Construction]].
* Find out what kind of [[en/Manual/Vehicles]] you will encounter in OpenTTD. Meet planes & ships.
* Follow [[en/Manual/Railway construction]] for more articles on laying even more tracks, making incredible junctions and some more advanced stuff.
* Read [[en/Manual/Main Page|the manual]] if you need information on anything specific - or try searching for it.
* Check out Sapphire United's useful set of tutorials on youtube - [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KAriYewKvj8&feature=PlayList&p=C168C0CB0588B9A0&index=0&playnext=1 Watch the mini-series]

<br style="clear:both;">
<span style="float: right">[[en/Manual/Tutorial/Two Platforms|'''Next Tutorial:''' Expanding the railway with more trains and platforms.]] &raquo;</span>
</div>
[[Category:en/Manual/Tutorial]]