Drive-through depots are depots that have a door in both sides. A train or road vehicle can enter and leave from either side. This allows build of space-efficient sidings, service areas, etc.

== Current patch ==

* [http://cataclysm.cx/random/openttd/drive-through-depots.r15736.diff drive-through-depots.r15736.diff] (against r15736)

== Features ==

* Enter/leave rail depots from front and back sides
* Leaving depot triggers "leave station" codepaths, ie determine path to next order and reverse/don't reverse as necessary. If no path found or no next order, train leaves as it entered, just like regular depots
* Two trains can enter depot from opposite sides at the same time without collisions
* Building a depot will also build junction rails on both side to join up to rails there, as required.

== Todo ==

* Allow two trains to leave from opposite sides at the same time
* Add drive-through road/tram depots
* Be more deliberate about allowing pathfinder to find a path through the depot, with some explicit cost.

To be considered:

* Should it be possible for vehicles to drive through without stopping, ie treat the depot as a normal piece of road/rail?
** Note in this case collisions from opposite sides need to be reconsidered.
** The depot pseudo-signal probably needs to get smarter.
* If a vehicle can drive through without stopping, should it incur a speed penalty?
* Are single-entry depots required anymore?
** If you only want to use one side, just don't hook up the other side.
** On the other hand, a front-side door to nowhere looks silly.
** Also potential frustration with the autotrack/road stuff if you didn't want to join the depot to one side.
* Are new graphics required?

== Videos ==

* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGnZAC5kpOo 16 March 2009 (r15736)] - road vehicles in action
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EyndHZ6Bqtk 13 March 2009 (r15684)] - shows trains driving through the depot if their orders require it
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zsEpFy_RSuU 4 March 2009] - early demo showing trains entering/leaving from the reverse side of the depot