Improved shares is a coming-soon feature by TheJosh. The main reason for this change is to remove the ability to share cheat.

==Features==
These are features that have been requested by users or that I think should be implemented

* Smaller increments of purchases.
:Either 5%, or a number of shares, with say 10,000 per company available. Interface may be designed to allow entering a figure of the amount wanted.

* An accurate method of determining the share price.
:Probably based on value of assets (not cash), although may be a weighted value

* Takeovers to require both companies to agree.
:How will this work with AI? What happens to the player that is taken over?

==Roadmap==
;Patch 1
:Update the company details GUI so it can show an unlimited number of owners, rather than the previous limit of 3. Don't change any of how the system works
:''Status: Patch made''
:[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=36627 Forum topic]

;Patch 2
:Change the way the owners are saved in save games, so that its more flexible. Don't change how shares are bought and sold, just how they are stored internally and in save games.
:Current system:
:<code>shares = array [ 0 = *player, 1 = *player, 2 = *player, 3 = *player ]</code>
:New system:
:<code>shares_owned = array [ 0 = int, 1 = int, 2 = int, 3 = int, 4 = int, 5 = int, 6 = int, 7 = int ]</code>
:where the index is the player number.
:''Status: Not started''

;Patch 3
:Change how shares are bought and sold, so they are in smaller increments. Changes not allowed to bump save game.
:''Status: Not started''

;Patch 4
:Change takeovers to require approval from the user being taken over. Changes not allowed to bump save game.
:''Status: Not started''