Help for vehicle console commands.

There are five commands that can be used to control vehicles. They all have same syntax, they just differ in which types of vehicles they affect and some subcommands work only on some vehicle types (for example selling train wagons work only with trains)

{|
|Command||Function
|-
|'''rail'''||Control trains (rail vehicles)
|-
|'''road'''||Control road vehicles (trucks, buses, trams)
|-
|'''ship'''||Control ships
|-
|'''aircraft'''||Control aircrafts (alias for this command is '''plane''')
|-
|'''vehicle'''||Control all types of vehicles
|}

== Synopsis ==

Invoke command on specified vehicle(s). Usage: 'vehicle <identifier> <command> [<optional command parameters...>]'
Command can be:
 center          Center main view on vehicle's location (Aliases: centre)
 clone           Clone vehicle, if it is in depot
 clone_shared    Same as clone, but with shared orders
 count           Count vehicles matching given criteria
 depot           Send to depot
 ignore          Ignore signals
 info            Show vehicle info on console
 interval        Set servicing interval. Parametr specifies new interval in days/percent
 leave           Leave station by skipping to next order
 open            Open vehicle window (Aliases: show)
 sell            Sell vehicle, if it is stopped in depot
 service         Send for servicing
 skip            Skip to next order. Optional parameter specifies how many orders to skip ('r' = skip to random order, default is 1)
 start           Start vehicle (Aliases: go)
 stop            Stop vehicle
 turn            Turn around (Aliases: reverse)
 winfo           Show info about train wagons on console
 wsell           Sell train wagons(s). If one parameter is given, single wagon will be sold. If two parameters are given, they will specify range of wagons to sell.
Identifier can be:
 'all' or '*' for all vehicles
 'crashed' for all crashed vehicles
 name of group for all vehicles from specified group. Can accept unique prefix of group name
 vehicle number for specific vehicle
Operators < > <= and >= can be used instead of = for following matches:
 len=[value] for matching train length (in tiles)
 maxspeed=[value] for matching maximum speed (in km/h)
 orders=[value] for matching number of orders
 group=[name] for matching group by name
 profit=[value] for matching sum of this and last year's profit (in pounds)
 profit_this=[value] for matching this year's profit (in pounds)
 profit_last=[value] for matching last year's profit (in pounds)
 service=[value] for matching service interval (in days/percent)
 speed=[value] for matching current speed (in km/h)