[[Translation:en/Development/NewGRF/Incompatibility Hints]]


This page is dedicated to listing changes to NewGRFs which NewGRF authors should consider bumping the min_compatible_version to the current version of their newgrf as they have the potential to break the savegame and maybe even crash OpenTTD.

==What is (in)compatibility==
There are two kinds of compatibility:
* Changes which just add additional stuff to the NewGRF and don't influence any of exisiting things
* Changes which change the behaviour of existing things in a way that loading of a savegame works, but the game continues differently than with the previous version of the NewGRF. This is a grey area, but save to keep the compatibility maintained.
* Anything which results in a re-interpretation of the existing game state is incompatible. These are the important things to look out for

==Incompatible changes==

finally can append to it but the type aterbiutts  1  will write to the tag once i re-run the program Is that any way where it will continue the numbers instead of starting from 1 .Currently Xml file: <Books><Book type= 1 ><Author>ok</Author><Section>1</Section></Book><Book type= 2 ><Author>no</Author><Section>2</Section></Book><Book type= 1 > Not I wanted <Author>Peter</Author><Section>7</Section></Book></Books> Hope to become: <Books><Book type= 1 ><Author>ok</Author><Section>1</Section></Book><Book type= 2 ><Author>no</Author><Section>2</Section></Book><Book type= 3 > This is what I wanted <Author>Peter</Author><Section>7</Section></Book></Books> My Coding:Dim m As String =  1 Private Sub btnAdd_Click(ByVal sender As System.Object, ByVal e As System.EventArgs) Handles btnAdd.Click        Dim doc As New Xml.XmlDocument         load file        doc.Load( data.xml )        Dim root As XmlNode = doc.SelectSingleNode( //Books )        If root Is Nothing Then             if this is a new document create root            root = doc.SelectSingleNode( //Books )        Else             create node             get root node named users            Dim Usersnode As Xml.XmlElement = doc.SelectSingleNode( //Books )             add the new node            Dim newNode As Xml.XmlElement = doc.CreateElement( Book )             add aterbiutts            newNode.SetAttribute( type , m)             add children nodes if any            Dim child As Xml.XmlElement = doc.CreateElement( Author )            child.InnerText = txtAuthor.Text            newNode.AppendChild(child)            child = doc.CreateElement( Section )            child.InnerText = txtSection.Text            newNode.AppendChild(child)             add new node to users node            Usersnode.AppendChild(newNode)            m += 1        End If         save doc        doc.Save( data.xml )    End SubThanks  Was this answer helpful?

===Vehicles===
* Changing the length of vehicles
* Removing cargos from a vehicle

, I'm not against  frovloius  additions to the Kindle as long as implementing them doesn't take away from the core design and I prefer they remain optional.I downloaded both the games that were added to the store yesterday and of the two I like Shuffled Row a lot more. I've had the games less than 24 hours and have already played many rounds. I was surprised to find that the game was slightly addicting, though I expect that will wear off when it's not so new.Shuffled Row is sort of a mashup between Scrabble, Boggle, and Bananagrams, but with the twist of there being some guy standing there swiping your letters if you don't use them fast enough.You have a sort of Scrabble tray of letters that are added one at a time and once the last one is added the first letters start dropping off. So you have to use them before they disappear off your tray. There is a progress bar that moves at the bottom of each letter so you can see when they will appear and disappear. There's a box at the top that tells you how many more letters you have left, out of the 60 total, and a list at the bottom shows which words you've made and how many points you got for each one.Three letter words don't get many points. Using more letters multiplies your word score. So four letters gets a 2x multiplier and so on. Just like in Scrabble, different letters have different point values assigned. So if you can make 5 letter or more words using high point letters you can get some good scores.The game keeps track of your highest game score and your highest word score, even between playing sessions. There's also an option to clear out the high scores if you want to start over. There's an option choice on the game menu that allows you to change how two of the key entries work to suit your tastes. If you need to pause the game push the Menu key. As long as the menu displays it will remain paused. You can click Continue on the menu to resume the game.I also played the other game a few times. It's more of a sitting and pondering type of game, at least on the relaxed mode I played it on. What I like about Shuffle Row is that it's more of a free-wheeling, by the seat of your pants type of game. It goes pretty quickly. The game is perfect for when you might have a few minutes to kill when your Kindle is handy, but not long enough to really get into reading a book.This is a single-player game, but it could easily be adapted to play against other Kindle owners if you're sitting around together. The version I thought of was everyone gets ready at the main menu and someone says go and everyone starts the game at the same time. Whoever finishes before the others could get a 10 point bonus score. You could also add a 10 point bonus to whoever got the highest single word score. Add bonuses and the game score to see who wins that round.Oh and one last thing. It's not really clear at first how to exit out of the game. There's nothing on the menu. Hitting the Home key works.Shuffled Row gets two thumbs up from me as a fun addition to the Kindle.p.s. Please note that the Active Content listings for the Kindle include a drop down button so you can see which devices the product will work on. As more apps are added, some that will cost money, it will be important to make sure you can use the app you're buying.

===Industries===
* Changing or removing an existing layout
* Changing or removing cargos

Thanks for this. I was just checking my web site in IE bcuaese I know some people still use it and those sounds were annoying the hell out of me. Christ, what a ridiculous browser! Thanks again for restoring a little peace and quiet.