[[Translation:en/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Passengers]]
{{en/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Cargo|
name=Passengers|
image=en/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Town.png|
produced=[[en/Manual/Towns]], [[en/Manual/Base Set/Industries/Oil Rig]], [[en/Archive/Manual/Headquarters]]|
accepted=[[en/Manual/Towns]], [[en/Manual/Base Set/Industries/Oil Rig]], [[en/Manual/Base Set/Industries/Steel Mill]], [[en/Archive/Manual/Headquarters]]
}}

Passengers are generated mainly by [[en/Manual/Towns]] and cities, but, also company [[en/Archive/Manual/Headquarters]] and [[en/Manual/Base Set/Industries/Oil Rig]]s.

They are accepted in towns, oil rigs, [[en/Manual/Base Set/Industries/Steel Mill]]s and at [[en/Archive/Manual/Headquarters|HQ]]s

Passengers often form the mainstay of a company's revenue - at least in the early days.  Passengers can be transported from [[en/Manual/Towns]] to town or within towns using either trains, aircraft, buses or ships.  The larger the town the more passengers it can provide for your transport systems.

The transportation of passengers between towns is necessary for the growth of a town in all climates.

==Transport Type==

===Buses===
In the early stages of the game it is sensible to use buses to transport passengers between towns. Using buses keeps initial set up costs and running costs low and allows for a generally reliable revenue stream.  

Buses are not always effective for transporting large amounts of passengers as they do not have a large capacity so many are needed to satisfy demand - raising costs and clogging up stations.

===Trains===
Once a town has grown sufficiently it is more economical to use trains to transport passengers.  Trains are generally used for medium-long distance travel between large towns.  Using a train allows you to carry a lot more passengers at once than on buses and keeps costs low.  Trains can often travel faster than buses meaning that greater revenue can be gained from them. For a train to carry passengers a passenger car must be attached to the engine.

===Air Travel===
[[en/Manual/Aircraft]] are the most efficient way to transport passengers over long distances.  All airplanes have a large capacity and travel at high speed - meaning high revenues and low costs.  Supersonic aircraft (those with speeds of around 1400mph), though initially expensive, are often an excellent way to transport passengers as they have both a large capacity and travel at the highest quoted speed in the game - increasing revenues.

Aircraft can also be used effectively if it is difficult to build a road or rail track between towns (e.g. hills in the way) as the only infrastructure needed is an [[en/Manual/Airports]].

[[en/Helicopters]] are not often used to transport passengers (or anything for that matter) as they cost nearly as much as a plane and have very small capacities.  However, they have been shown to be successful in transporting passengers between town centres.  A [[en/Manual/Airports]] is built in a very central location in the town and helicopters are used between it to transport passengers and [[en/Manual/Base Set/Cargos/Mail]] to other cities.

===Ships===
There are three main passenger ships in OpenTTD the [[en/Manual/Base Set/Ships/MPS Passenger Ferry]], [[en/Manual/Base Set/Ships/FFP Passenger Ferry]] and the [[en/Manual/Base Set/Ships/Bakewell 300 Hovercraft]].  Transporting passengers with ships between towns can only be done if the town has access to a [[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles|canal]] or sea. 

Ships have a low inital set up cost as they are cheap and require only a dock to be of use.

The ferries should be used for transporting passengers over large distances; they are slow but their large capacity makes up for it.  However, if the ship is travelling long distances then [[en/Manual/Water Transport Tiles]] will need to be used.

The hovercraft is by the far best passenger ship - it holds a large capacity and is much faster than the two other ships. It can lead to large amounts of revenue very quickly.  It should be noted that the "hovercraft" cannot travel over land - only sea.