[[Translation:en/Manual/Game Mechanics/Main Page]]
Here you can find information about how OpenTTD calculates in-game figures.

You always wanted to know how the station-rating was built up? How goods-distribution works? Here you can find it!

[[Category:en/Manual/Playing]]
[[Category:en/Development]]

==Player rating==

Each part of the player rating is a linear function, ie. earning 50% of the target for a component will give 50% of the points allocated for that component. Where components involve monetary amounts, these are converted to the currency of the current game; internally these amounts are stored as the pound amount.

{| border="1"
! Component !! Target !! Points (min) !! Points (max)
|-
|Vehicle count||>=120||0 points for 0 vehicles||100 points for at least 120 vehicles
|-
|Number of station parts player owns||>=80||0 points for 0 parts||100 points for at least 80 parts
|-
|Minimum profit of vehicles at least two years old||>=£10,000||0 points for loss or £0||100 points for at least £10,000
|-
|Minimum monthly revenue earned in past 3 years||>=£50k||0 points for $0||50 points for at least £50k
|-
|Maximum monthly revenue earned in past 3 years||>=£100k||0 points for $0||100 points for at least £100k
|-
|Units of cargo delivered in past year||>=40,000||0 points for 0 units||400 points for at least 40,000 units
|-
|Number of types of cargo delivered in past quarter||>=8||0 points for 0 cargo-types||50 points for at least 8 cargo-types
|-
|Current cash in bank||>=£10m||0 points for $0||50 points for at least £10m
|-
|Current loan from bank||$0||0 points for >£250k||50 points for £0
|-
! Totals !!!! 0 points !! 1000 points
|}

==Station-rating==

How is the rating of goods in a station is built up?

First of all, you need to transport that certain cargo. After that, the rating is defined like in the table below (you start with 0%):

{| border="1"
|+ '''Station rating'''
|-
! Action !! Condition !! Rating-points
|-
| Max-speed of last vehicle entering station || Above 85 km/h (approx. 52 mph)|| (Speed (km/h) - 85) / 4 points (with a of max 17 %)
|-
| Age of last vehicle entering station || 3 years || 10 points (4 %)
|-
| || 2 years || 20 points (8 %)
|-
| || <= 1 years || 33 points (13 %)
|-
| Statue in town of station || Built || 26 points (10 %)
|-
| Days since last cargo pickup || > 12 days, <= 21 days || 25 points (10 %)
|-
| || > 6 days, <= 12 days || 50 points (20 %)
|-
| || > 3 days, <= 6 days || 95 points (37 %)
|-
| || <= 3 days || 130 points (51 %)
|-
| Cargo waiting at station || > 1500 units || -90 points (-35 %)
|-
| || > 1000 units, <= 1500 units || -35 points (-14 %)
|-
| || > 600 units, <= 1000 units || 0 points (0 %)
|-
| || > 300 units, <= 600 units || 10 points (4 %)
|-
| || > 100 units, <= 300 units || 30 points (12 %)
|-
| || <= 100 units || 40 points (16 %)
|}

Now divide the number by 255, and you have your new rating. Remember that it can only increase/decrease by 2% at the time.
The maximum possible rating-points is (17 + 13 + 10 + 51 + 16 = ) 107 %, but of course the maximum value is 100%.

==Local Authority Ratings==
Code for town ratings is in town.h, town_cmd.c, tree_cmd.c, and road_cmd.c.

Ratings limit some player actions, and can also change based on some actions.  

<table width="100%">
<tr><td style="background:none; border:0px">
{| border="1" cellpadding="5"
|-
!Rating points!!Rating
|-
| -1000 to -400 || Appalling
|-
| -399 to -200 || Very Poor
|-
| -199 to 0 || Poor
|-
| 0 to 200 || Mediocre
|-
| 201 to 400 || Good
|-
| 401 to 600 || Very Good
|-
| 601 to 800 || Excellent
|-
| 801 to 1000 || Outstanding
|}
</td><td style="background:none; border:0px">
{| border="1" cellpadding="5"
|-
!Player action!!Required rating!!Effect on rating
|-
|Build a station|| 200 ||
|-
|Destroy an 'edge' piece of road|| 0 / 48 / 96 ||-18
|-
|Destroy a 'centre' piece of road|| 0 / 48 / 96 ||-50
|-
|Destroy a city tunnel or bridge|| 128 / 192 / 384 ||-250
|-
|Destroy building|| 40 to 300 ||-40 to -300
|-
|Plant tree on clear square|| ||+7, up to 220.
|-
|Clear a tile with trees|| ||-35
|-
|Successful bribe|| ||+200
|-
|Unsucessful bribe|| ||Set to -50
|}
Required rating is listed as Permissive / Neutral / Hostile.
</td></tr></table>

Each month players' ratings automatically change:
* Rating goes up by 5 if it is less than 200.
* Rating goes up by 12 for each station that has transferred cargo in the last 20 days.
* Rating goes down by 15 for each station that has not transferred cargo in the last 20 days.


'''Example:'''<br>
A player has a rating of -300, (Very Poor), 2 active stations and 1 unactive station at a town.<br>
5pts + 2 * 12pts - 15pts = 14pts points gain per month.<br>
500pts / 14pts/mo = 36 months before the town will let him build another station.

==Industry Production==
Here is how the game determines how much cargo an industry produces per month.  This section lists production governed by the default [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Configuring patches/Economy#enable-smooth-economy|smooth economy]] patch.  Production is always a multiple of 8.

{| border="1" cellpadding="4"
!Raw Material Industry!!Produced Cargo!!Initial production range
|-
|Coal Mine||Coal||56 to 176
|-
|Forest||Wood||48 to 152
|-
|Oil Rig||Oil||56 to 176
|-
|Farm||Grain and Livestock||40 to 112
|-
|Copper Mine||Copper Ore||56 to 112
|-
|Oil Well||Oil||48 to 152
|-
|Iron Mine||Iron Ore||40 to 112
|-
|Bank||Valuables||24 to 64
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Gold Mine||Gold||24 to 80
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Diamond Mine||Diamonds||24 to 80
|-
|Fruit Plantation||Fruit||40 to 112
|-
|Rubber Plantation||Rubber||40 to 112
|-
|Water Supply||Water||48 to 152
|-
|Farm||Maize||40 to 128
|-
|Lumber Mill||Wood||0
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Cotton Candy Forest||Cotton Candy||48 to 152
|-
|Battery Farm||Batteries||40 to 128
|-
|Cola Wells||Cola||48 to 136
|-
|Plastic Fountain||Plastic||56 to 160
|-
|Bubble Generator||Bubbles||48 to 152
|-
|Toffee Quarry||Toffee||40 to 112
|-
|Sugar Mine||Sugar||40 to 128
|}


Each month the game randomly changes some industry productions:
*There is a 2% chance that the production will go down by 4% to 23% (random).  
*There is a 2% to 4% (not random) chance that the production will go up by 4% to 23% (random).
*The more cargo that is transferred from the industry, the better the chance that production will go up.  100% cargo transfer results in a 4% chance.
*Both changes can occur in the same month, and maybe cancel each other out.
*Maximum production is 2040 units.


'''Example:'''<br>
An coal mine has 70% of its output delivered:<br>
Automatic 2% chance production will go down ~13% this month.<br>
2% + 2% * 70% = 3.4% chance production will go up ~13% this month.<br>
(1+ 1.4% * 113%) ^ 12 = 121%, the coal mine will grow an average of 21% per year.


'''Note:'''  The exact formula is more complicated.  See industry.c.

==Delivery Payment Rates==
The amount you get paid for delivering cargo is based on 4 factors: the amount of cargo you deliver, the value of the cargo, the distance you deliver it, and how on-time you deliver it.

{| border="1" cellpadding="4"
!Cargo!!Units!!Early Delivery<br> Time (days)!!Late Delivery<br> Time (days)!!Initial cargo <br> payment (pounds)
|-
|Passengers|| ||Immediate||24||£39
|-
|Valuables||Bags||1||32||£91
|-
|Livestock||Items||4||18||£53
|-
|Grain||Tons||4||40||£58
|-
|Goods||Crates||5||28||£75
|-
|Coal||Tons||7||None||£72
|-
|Steel||Tons||7||None||£69
|-
|Iron Ore||Tons||9||None||£62
|-
|Wood||Tons||15||None||£61
|-
|Oil||Kiloliters||25||None||£54
|-
|Mail||Bags||20||90||£55
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Wheat||Tons||4||40||£58
|-
|Paper||Tons||7||60||£66
|-
|Gold||Bags||10||40||£71
|-
|Food||Tons||Immediate||30||£69
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Rubber||Kiloliters||2||20||£54
|-
|Fruit||Tons||Immediate||15||£51
|-
|Maize||Tons||4||40||£53
|-
|Tropical Wood||Tons||15||None||£97
|-
|Copper Ore||Tons||12||None||£59
|-
|Water||Kiloliters||20||80||£57
|-
|Diamonds||Bags||10||None||£71
|-
|colspan="5"|
|-
|Sugar||Tons||20||None||£54
|-
|Toys|| ||25||None||£68
|-
|Batteries|| ||2||30||£53
|-
|Candy||Tons||8||40||£75
|-
|Toffee||Tons||14||60||£58
|-
|Cola||Kiloliters||5||75||£59
|-
|Cotton Candy||Tons||10||25||£61
|-
|Bubbles|| ||20||80||£62
|-
|Plastic||Kiloliters||30||None||£54
|-
|Fizzy Drinks|| ||30||50||£76
|}

Initial cargo payment values are for delivering 100 pieces of cargo 1 tile.  Payment goes up with inflation as the game progresses.


Late delivery penalties:
*For each day after the Early Delivery time that you deliver the cargo, you are penalized 0.4%.
*For each day after the Late Delivery time that you deliver the cargo, you are penalized an additional 0.4%.
*Maximum penalty is -88%.


'''Examples''' (no inflation):<br>
Deliver 200,000 liters of oil 20 squares in 10 days:<br>
2 * £54 * 20 squares * 100% = £2160

Deliver 100 bags of mail 100 squares in 100 days:<br>
£55 * 100 squares * (1 - 80*0.004 - 10*0.004) = £3520


'''Notes:'''
* The exact formula is much more complicated.  See economy.c.

* Distance is measured between the stations, not from the industries or by vehicle distance traveled.  It is computed by adding the differences in x and y tiles, not straight-line distance.