[[Translation:en/Manual/Game Mechanics/Tractive Effort]]

== Tractive Effort ==

Tractive Effort is the force needed to simply move the train.

To move one ton on level track (e.g., µ = 0.35), you will need a force of 35 Newton.

For slopes, you will need an additional 100 Newton per percent of steepness.

== Power ==

Power is the force needed to run a train at a certain speed.

To get the Power required to move a train at a certain speed, multiply the Tractive effort to move the train with the speed in m/s. (P = F * v)

== Multihead Trains ==

With multiheaded trains, the tractive effort of each locomotive will simply be added together.

As a result of this, the power of each locomotive will also be added together.

== Examples ==
=== Flat Land ===
Let's assume you have an 800-ton train which needs to reach a speed of 60 km/h.

First, we calculate the tractive effort required to simply move the train.

 800 (tons) * 35 N = 28,000 N

You will need a locomotive with a tractive effort of at least 28 kN.

Secondly, we calculate power to move that train at that speed

 P = 28 kN * 60 km/h = 28 kN * 16.66 m/s = 466 kW

You will need a locomotive with a power of min 466 kW.

Taken together, to move an 800 ton with a speed of 60 km/h, on flat land, you need a locomotive with a tractive effort of at least 28 kN and a power of at least 466 kW.

=== Incline ===
Let's assume the same train as in the previous example, but now, it needs to ascend an incline of 3%.

Again, first the tractive effort.

 800 (tons) * 35 N = 28,000 N
 800 (tons) * 3 (%) * 100 N = 240,000 N
 total = 28,000 N + 240,000 N = 268 kN

The locomotive needs a tractive effort of at least 268 kN.

Now, for the power needed:

 P = 268 kN * 60 km/h = 268 kN * 16.66 m/s = 4466 kW

Taken together, to move that same train on an incline of 3%, you need a locomotive with a tractive effort of at least 268 kN and a power of at least 4466 kW.

=== A Combination of the two ===
When encountering a combination of flat land and incline, for example, a longer train moving over a single incline, you will need to calculate how much of the train is actually travelling on the incline.

Assuming the same train which is 5 squares long on the map (the number 10 is shown in the depot), encountering an incline of 1 square (two parts of the train are on the incline).

Again, First the tractive effort.

 800 (tons) * 35 N = 28,000 N
 800 (tons) * 3 (%) * 100 N = 240,000 N * 2 (incline length) / 10 (number shown in depot) = 48,000 N
 total = 28,000 N + 48,000 N = 76 kN

The locomotive needs a tractive effort of at least 76 kN.

Now, for the power needed:

 P = 76 kN * 60 km/h = 76 kN * 16.66 m/s = 1266 kW

You will need a locomotive with a power of min 1266 kW.

== See also ==
* [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Realistic acceleration]]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=751674#p751674 TT-forums] - The post containing the calculations.


[[Category:en/Manual/Vehicles]]