The "TT Screenshot of the Month" (SOTM) is a monthly competition of player-submitted screenshots. Submitted screenshots may be based on any version of Transport Tycoon (TTO), Transport Tycoon Deluxe (TTD), TTD Patch (TTDP or TTDX), OpenTTD (OTTD) or Transport Tycoon Mobile (TTM), using any base graphics sets or NewGRF sets. Screenshots need not be actual views from the game, and may be edited to enhance the screenshot or to create a visual theme. All voting in the competition is conducted via poll on TT-Forums in the current dedicated discussion topic. 
{| class="wikitable" style="float: right;" border="2" width="75%"  
|style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;" colspan="3" | WINNERS BOARD
|-
|style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;" | WINNER || style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;" |TOTAL || style="font-weight: bold; text-align: center;" |MONTHS
|-
|Quast65 || 5 ||[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1049999#p1049999 09/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1065250#p1065250 01/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1076368#p1076368 04/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1095873#p1095873 08/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1116965#p1116965 03/14]
|-
|ISA || 5 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1033382#p1033382 06/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1081882#p1081882 05/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1113903#p1113903 02/14], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1119429#p1119429 04/14], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1127771#p11277713 07/14]
|-
|Emperor Jake || 3 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1014408#p1014408 04/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1053525#p1053525 10/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1056418#p1056418 11/12] 
|-
|Yoshi || 3 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1073079#p1073079 03/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1125272#p1125272 06/14], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1157665#p1157665 09/15]
|-
|Ladusa || 2 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1106621#p1106621 11/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1110498#p1110498 01/14] 
|-
|Purno || 2 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1061080#p1061080 12/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1081882#p1081882 05/13]
|-
|romazoon || 2 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1038898#p1038898 07/12], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1046487#p1046487 08/12]
|-
|SwissFan91 || 2 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1084997#p1084997 06/13], [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1102359#p1102359 10/13]
|-
|alluke || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1127771#p11277713 07/14]
|-
|Badger || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1038898#p1038898 07/12]
|-
|EXTspotter || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1038898#p1038898 07/12]
|-
|OzTrans || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1089963#p1089963 07/13]
|-
|Sallarsahr || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1069328#p1069328 02/13]
|-
|Seeker || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1110498#p1110498 12/13]
|-
|Valle || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1100006#p1100006 09/13]
|-
|WallyWeb || 1 || [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1155564#p1155564 08/15]
|}

= Competition Rules =
* All participants must register an account on tt-forums. 
* Screenshots must be submitted by PM (private message) to the competition moderator.
* Screenshots must be no larger than 800x600, and no smaller than 640x480.
* Only one entry per participant. Entries may be withdrawn or replaced at any time before the deadline.
* Captions are permitted and encouraged in order to elicit greater voting.
* Use of graphics programs to enhance screenshots (aka "Photoshopping") is permitted.
* The winner is offered the chance to pick the next month's theme.
* In the event of a tie, the winners will be offered an opportunity to collaborate together on a theme. If they cannot come to a quick decision, the competition moderator shall select a theme for the next competition.
* If fewer than three entries are submitted in a month, the competition will automatically roll over to the next month. If after two months there are still fewer than three entries, the competition moderator will declare the competition a draw, and select a theme for the next competition.

= History = 
Prior to the "TT Screenshot of the Month" competition, several other attempts at organizing such competitions had existed on TT-Forums. The longest sustained competition was [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=47&t=34080 first organized] by Amecheer in September 2007, later modified in March 2008, and officially ended in January 2010 after several months of inactivity. The competition was [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=46857 immediately revived] by ZxBiohazardZx, but only lasted a month itself. The [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=47&t=59459 current competition] was started by SwissFan91 in April 2012 and has ran continuously since. In January 2014, Kamnet was named the competition moderator and the competition continued under the same format. August 2015 saw the competition return to the moderation of SwissFan91.

= Monthly Competition Results = 
The results of each month's competitions and participants are noted below. All participants are listed with their submitted screenshot linked to their name, with the total number of votes behind it. 
== 2012 ==
=== April 2012 ===
The inaugural competition had no dedicated theme. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1012479#p1012479 concluded on April 30, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159650 Emperor Jake] (13), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159649 Cross side] (8), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159651 ISA] (8), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159648 A321Pilot] (5), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159652 The Irish] (0), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=159653 thphwh] (0). 

=== May/June 2012 ===
The May/June 2012 theme was ''Industry''. Due to a lack of time on the moderator's part and sparse submissions, the competition deadline was extended into June. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1031788#p1031788 concluded on July 1, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161627 ISA] (12), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161629 Emperor Jake] (10), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161633 FLHerne] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161628 Quast65] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161631 zooks] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161632 sniperDJ] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161634 Beul] (1), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=161630 A321Pilot] (0).

=== July 2012 ===
The July 2012 theme was ''Passenger Terminals''. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1037179#p1037179 concluded on July 30, 2012]. Our first-ever tie was created between Badger, and the team of EXTspotter & romazoon. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162570 Badger] (12), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162573 EXTspotter & romazoon] (12), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162579 SwissFan91] (4), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162578 Quast65] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162580 zooks] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162574 FLHerne] (1), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162575 Jacko] (1), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162576 Kamnet] (1), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162569 A321Pilot] (0), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162571 Bob Mackenzie] (0), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162572 Chrill] (0), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=162577 Katve] (0).

=== August 2012 ===
The August 2012 theme was ''Vacation/Holiday Photos''. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1044427#p1044427 concluded on September 2, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=163756 romazoon] (13), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=163754 ISA] (8) and [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=163755 Katve] (6).

===September 2012 ===
The September 2012 theme was ''Industrial Areas''. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1049087#p1049087 concluded on October 5, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164675 Quast65] (12), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164670 Emperor Jake] (9), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164672 kamnet](4), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164674 oberhümer] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164671 ISA] (1), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=164673 Nite Owl] (0).

=== October 2012 ===
The October 2012 theme was ''Cities''. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1052709#p1052709 concluded on November 3, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165531 Emperor Jake] (8), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165537 STD] (4), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165533 minecraftfan] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165530 BTA90] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165534 oberhümer] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165535 Quast65] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165536 Sallarsahr] (2), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165529 A321Pilot] (1), and [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=165532 Katve] (0).

===November 2012 ===
The November 2012 theme was ''The Golden Age of Railways''. The competition [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1055602#p1055602 concluded on December 1, 2012]. Competition participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166111 Emperor Jake] (12), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166112 Hargs] (7), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166114 Quast65] (7), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166113 ISA] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166115 The Irish] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166116 Valle] (3), and [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=166117 Zooks] (3).

=== 2012 ===
The 2012 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2012]. Competition participants were .

== 2013 ==
=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The December 2013 theme was ''Merry Christmas''. The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== November 2013 ===
The 2013 theme was . The competition [concluded on , 2013]. Competition participants were .

=== December 2013 ===
The December 2013 theme was ''Happy Holidays''. Due to a lack of time on SwissFan91's part, efforts to organize the December competition failed to materialize. Moderation of the competition was passed on to Kamnet.  There was also some misunderstanding about what the actual theme for December 2013 would be. SwissFan91 was the winner of the October competition and opted to select the December theme instead of the November theme. Because of the mitigating circumstances, the December 2013 and January 2014 theme were ran concurrently. The competition was [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1109978#p1109978 concluded on January 27, 2014]. The participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176740 Seeker] (16), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176738 Ladusa] (6), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176741 STD] (4), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176737 ISA] (2) and [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176739 Planetmaker] (2).

== 2014 ==
=== January 2014 ===
The January 2014 theme was ''Out with the Old, and in with the New''. The competition was [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1109981#p1109981 concluded on January 27, 2014]. The participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176744 Ladusa] (14), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176743 ISA] (6), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176747 StepanBarth] (5), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176746 STD] (4), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176742 FLHerne] (3) and [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=176745 Purno] (3).

=== February 2014 === 
The February 2014 theme was ''Epic''. The competition was [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1112932#p1112932 concluded on March 2, 2014.] The participants were [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177454 ISA] (18), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177455 Kotssmurf] (6), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177460 Seeker] (6), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177457 Quast65] (5), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177459 Wallyweb] (5), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177456 Ladusa] (3), [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=177458 STD] (2)

=== March 2014 ===
The [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1113903#p1113903 March 2014 theme] is ''Your Home''. The competition will conclude on March 30, 2014.