=== The availability of trains in different game periods. With which year you can start to play in a set. The choice of rolling stock at the beginning of the game===
In the set you can start to play since 1871 (the year of the advent of the steam locomotive F (Ferly's system)). All goods can be transported in this year: 
List of appearance of the first cars for the transport of cargoes with standard industries:
{|class="wikitable sortable"
|-
! Name
! Year appearance, <br>yy
! Type of cargo 
|-
|Boxcar of 1846
|1846
|Paper, Wheat, Livestock, Goods - subarctic climate <br>  Goods, Livestock, Paper, Wheat  - temperate climate <br> Goods, Maize, Rubber, Water - tropical climate
|-
|Flatbed of 1846
|1846
|Wood, Goods, Coal - subarctic climate <br> Wood, Goods, Coal, Iron Ore, Steel - temperate climate <br> Wood, Goods, Copper Ore - tropical climate
|-
|3rd class hard suburban coach of 1872, 1st class soft slepping coach of 1864 and 2nd class soft slepping coach of 1858
|1858
|Passengers - subarctic climate <br> Passengers - temperate climate <br> Passengers - tropical climate
|-
|Refrigerator van based of 1862
|1862
|Products - subarctic climate  <br> Products, Fruits - tropical climate
|-
|Luggage car of 1858
|1858
|Gold, Goods - subarctic climate <br> Gold, Goods - temperate climate <br> Goods, Diamonds - tropical climate
|-
|Mail car of 1858
|1858
|Mail - subarctic climate <br> Mail - temperate climate <br> Mail - tropical climate
|-
|Tanker of 1872
|1872
|Oil - subarctic climate <br> Oil - temperate climate <br> Oil - tropical climate
|-
|Tanker of 1858
|1872
|Water - tropical climate
|}
Based on the table, we can draw the following conclusions:
*If the player is interested to know the years of the appearance of all RS, then you can start the game in 1871 (the year of the advent of the steam locomotive F (Ferly's system))
*If a player wants to transport all available standard cargos, then the game should also start in 1871. Moreover, the list of available cargoes depends on the type of climate (see the table above)
When connecting sets of additional graphics (for example, ECS, FIRS) the list of goods transported will be different from the standard. <br>
The first RS is avaible in 1871 year - steam F (Ferly's system). In the following years will different types of other RS - locomotives, electric locomotives, diesel locomotives, DMUs and EMUs. <br>
Selection of RS depends on the start date of the game. Examples will be given with the parameter set - the select list of RS series: normal. Read more about the options set out in section [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Parameters of the xUSSR set| '''The parameters of the xUSSR set.''']] <br>
'''Example 1'''. The date of the beginning of the game 1910. Used for transport cargoes from standard industries. Type of climate - temperate.
:For transportation of cargoes available are the following models of locomotives:
;Steam 
:*T (0-6-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*ChN (0-8-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*H (2-8-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*R (2-8-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*Ov (0-8-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*Sch (2-8-0) "Schuka" - freight steam locomotive
:*Schp (2-8-0) "Schuka" - freight steam locomotive
:*Izhitsa (0-8-0) - freight steam locomotive 
:*Y (0-8-0) - freight steam locomotive
 :*D (0-4-2) "Dvuhparka" Schneider - passenger steam locomotive
:*ND (2-6-0) - passenger steam locomotive
:*Nv (2-6-0) - passenger steam locomotive
:*Zh (4-6-0) - passenger steam locomotive
:*U (4-6-0) - passenger steam locomotive
:*S (2-6-2) "Russian Preri" - passenger steam locomotive
:*F (0-6-0 + 0-6-0) (Ferly's system) - shunting steam locomotive
:*'k (0-6-0) - shunting steam locomotive
All the necessary wagons are avaible for transportation of cargoes available. <br> 
'''Example 2'''. The date of the beginning of the game 1930. Used for transport goods from standard industries. Type of climate - temperate.
:For transportation of cargoes in addition to locomotives in example 1 the following models locomotives are available :
;Steams 
:*Schch (2-8-0) "Schuka" - freight steam locomotive 
:*E (0-10-0) - freight steam locomotive
:*Eu (0-10-0) Eushka - freight steam locomotive
:*El (2-10-0) "Elena" - freight steam locomotive 
:*Su (2-6-2) "Sushka" - passenger steam locomotive
:*L (4-6-2) - passenger steam locomotive
:*Tk (2-2-2) - shunting steam locomotive
 
All the necessary wagons are avaible for transportation of cargoes available. <br>
'''Example 3'''. The date of the beginning of the game 1950. Used for transport goods from standard industries. Type of climate - temperate.
:For transportation of cargoes in addition to locomotives in example 1 and in example 2 the following models locomotives are available :
;Steams 
:*Em (0-10-0) - freight steam locomotive 
:*Er (0-10-0) "Erka" - freight steam locomotive
:*Ea (2-10-0) "Russian decapod" - freight steam locomotive 
:*FD20 (2-10-2) "Fedya (Felix Dzerzhinsky)" - freight steam locomotive
:*FD21 (2-10-2) "Fedya (Felix Dzerzhinsky)" - freight steam locomotive
:*SO17 (2-10-0) "Sergo" - freight steam locomotive
:*TE (2-10-0) "Frau" - freight steam locomotive
:*L (2-10-0) "Lebedyanka" - freight steam locomotive
:*LV (2-10-2) "Lebed" - freight steam locomotive
:*IS20 (2-8-4) (Iosif Stalin) - passenger steam locomotive
:*IS21 (1-4-2) (Iosif Stalin) - passenger steam locomotive
:*P12 (4-6-4 К) - passenger steam locomotive
:*P36 (4-8-4) "General" - passenger steam locomotive
:*9P (0-6-0) "Klop" - shunting steam locomotive
;Locomotives
:*EEl - passenger/cargo diesel locomotive
:*Da (Diesel Alco) - passenger/cargo diesel locomotive
:*ТE1 - passenger/cargo diesel locomotive
:*ТE2 "Bychok" - passenger/cargo diesel locomotive
:*Мх - shunting diesel locomotive
:*М3/2 - shunting locomotive
;Electric locomotives
:*PE150 (Electric) - industrial electric locomotive (DC 1.5kV)
:*13E (Electric) - industrial electric locomotive (DC 1.5kV)
:*21E (Electric) - industrial electric locomotive (DC 1.5kV)
:*SI (Suramski Italian) - passenger/cargo electric locomotive (DC)
:*Ss (Suramski Sovetski) - passenger/cargo electric locomotive (DC)
:*VL19 (Vladimir Lenin) - passenger/cargo electric locomotive (DC)
:*SK (Sergey Kirov) - passenger/cargo electric locomotive (DC)
:*VL22 - passenger/cargo electric locomotive (DC)
:*VL22М - freight electric locomotive (DC)
;EMUs
:*SV (EMU) - EMU section (DC 1.5kV)
:*SD (EMU) - EMU section (DC 1.5kV)
:*EM167 (EMU) - EMU section (DC 1.5kV)
:*SM (EMU) - EMU section (DC 1.5kV/3kV)
:*SR Kolombina (EMU) - EMU section (DC 1.5kV/3kV)
:*SRЗ Kolombina (EMU) - EMU section (DC 3kV) 
All the necessary wagons for the carriage of goods available.

====Main page XUSSR Set/EN====
[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main Page]]