== History of changes in xUSSR set ==
History of changes in xUSSR set includes a list of changes since version 0.2.
*4913 - Added flatbed 13-401.
*4943 - Added steam locomotive SO17/19 (2-10-0).
*4949 - Added tanker 15-1566.
*4852 - Added diesel locomotive ТE3.
*4955 - Added electric locomotive VL82.
*4973 - Added gondola NTV.
*5027 - Added steam locomotive Nd (2-6-0).
*5030 - Added steam locomotive OV (0-8-0).
*5033 - Added steam locomotive S (2-6-2).
*5036 - Added steam locomotive Su (2-6-2).
*5039 - Added steam locomotive NV (2-6-0).
*5045 - Added steam locomotive L (2-10-0).
*5048 - Added diesel locomotive ТE7.
*5063 - Added gondola 12-37.
*5069 - Added gondola 12-196-01.
*5078 - Added flatbed 13-4012.
*5102 - Added tanker 15-1547.
*5114 - Added tanker 15-886.
*5120 - Added ice wagon 1937.
*5123 - Added luggage wagon 61-517
*5345 - Fixed the rotation of the wheels of steam locomotives standing at the traffic lights.
*5363 - Added ice wagon Riga Fenikss.
*5366 - Added ice wagon for fruit 1937.
*5369 - Added ice wagon 1951-1957.
*5516 - Reduced life span of early electric locomotive ChS2T 63Е0 up to 10 years.
*5519 - Electric locomotive DS3 converted into a passenger/freight.
*5534 - The right orientation of sections in the build (the concatenation of two or more locomotives).
*5537 - Moved to separate the ID middle sections of multi-section locomotives 3TE10М, 3TE10U, 4TE10S; 3M62U; 3ES5K.
*5540 - Added model numbers for parts of diesel MUs DR1A in window additional information the buy menu.
*5543 - All connections "mashkotrains" DRB1 (section 2М62U + car ДР1А + ... + section 2М62У; section 2М62У + car ДР1А + ... + head non-motorized DR1A; head non-motorized DR1А + car DR1А + ... + section 2М62U) get a penalty of speed, and installation in head stock non-motorized DR1А is impossible.
*5549 - DMUs and EMUs can be attached to the locomotives only with no passengers.
*5603 - Fixed graphics of rails in the depot.
*5606 - It is not allowed to exit from the depot of the locomotive with a mid-section, associated with the tail of the united locomotives.
*5618 - Code review. All locomotives made  ARV.
*5627 - A limited number of locomotives to assemble of 2 teams.
*5642 - Change of livery for the year is made only after service.
*5648 - Fixed the selection code livery ChS4.
*5651 - Fixed the lack of forced colorization at electric locomotive VL23 in 1972.
*5654 - Code review. Last_computed_result removed.
*5660 - Code review. Removed unnecessary start_stop.
*5663 - Fixed the possibility of joining to 4ТE10S 4th middle section.
*5672 - Fixed speed of movement in the buy menu for locomotives ТE3, ТEP10, ТEP60, 2ТEP60, ТEP10L, VL8M, VL23, 2VL23, 3VL23, ChS2, ChS2T, ChS7, Fp, VL80T, VL80S, ChS4, ChS4T, ChSС8, EP10.
*5675 - Fixed graphics of EPr and EPg.
*5678 - Added new colors at electric locomotive VL60K.
*5681 - Added a change sprite in buy menu in 1972 for electric locomotives VL60 и VL60K.
*5684 - Fixed smoke of the locomotive Da/ТE1.
*5702 - Fixed sprite menu shopping for electric locomotive T8.
*5705 - Fixed pantographs of the electric locomotive VL82.
*5723 - Added a setting in the options set to disable the icons in the buy menu.
*5726 - Added new graphics for locomotive ChME3.
*5729 - Update Сhangelog in the game.
*5744 - Definition sprites menu purchases made in the template.
*5783 - Fixed error in title RS.
*5789 - Fixed wrong label in the depot.
*5801 - Code review. Order with strings.
*5804 - Code review. Made a template for a penalty on speed.
*5816 - Fixed tenders from the steam engines of the family E.
*5822 - Wagon NTV divided into  NTV and DNTV.
*5825 - The corrected line additional information in the buy menu for DR1А EMUs.
*5831 - The corrected line additional information in the buy menu for electric locomotives.
*5834 - The corrected line additional information in the buy menu for diesel locomotives.
*5843 - Corrected the description ChS2 and ChS2T in the buy menu.
*5846 - Fixed the model number of DMU DR1P in the buy menu.
*5849 - Fixed the value of the tractive force of the locomotive 2TE25A "Vityaz".
*5855 - Code review. Introduced template of speed with year. 
*5864 - Code review. Introduced template no release from the depot of new locomotives 3* without middle section.
*5885 - Code review. Introduced template no release from the depot of new locomotives 2* with middle section.
*5891 - Code review. Livery with a blue stripe named UZhD.
*5894 - Fixed bug, when the locomotive is VL23 not properly change color after visiting the depot after 1971.
*5897 - Code review. Updated availability dates.
*5906 - Code review. Extended service life of NTV.
*5912 - Code review. Electric locomotive ChS7 - removed livery MPS, now they livery TCH11 и TCH18 with the change for the year.
*5915 - Code review. In cargo_subtype text terminator 0 replace on all after 0. Various minor changes
*5918 - Fixed penalty for speed when you build the 4th section at the SMU of an electric locomotive VL11.
*5939 - Code review. The choice of color at the end of the selection view.
*5963 - Code review. Fixed speed reduction for electric locomotives N8 и SS.
*5966 - Added 22 m 2nd class three-vestibule soft suburban open coach.
*5975 - Removed the cargo "Tourists" at suburban wagon "egorovets" 20,2 m.
*5984 - Added 18 m 2nd class soft slepping coach.
*5987 - Made sort of passenger cars.
*5993 - Fixed confusion with colors in the locomotive DM62.
*5996 - Fixed confused names of the liveries of the locomotives TEM2.
*5999 - Removed extraneous information menu reequipment at electric locomotives ChS4T.
*6011 - For RS, available in 2013, extended service life RS to 2050.
*6017 - It made rened models of electric locomotives ChS6 in window additional information.
*6047 - Code review. Prohibited the drawing of graphics in the menu.
*6053 - Added cargo WOOD for gondola NTV.
*6062 - Fixed vertical types of platform for cars 13-479.
*6065 - Fixed graphics vertical sprites of EMUs ED2Т.
*6068 - Fixed graphics vertical sprites of EMUs ED9Т.
*6089 - Code review. Uniform return SW.
*6116 - Code review. The view prior to 1970 for diesel locomotive M62 made pre-series.
*6122 - Fixed livery and descriptions for compartment cars Waggonbau Ammendorf.
*6131 -	Added 20 m 1st class soft slepping coach
*6137 -	Оформление кода.  Update data on the first second-class CMV (year of graduation with 1949 on 1950)
*6140 -	Update graphics VL11 (the pantograph + new color).
*6188 -	Fixed bug, when 2ESС5К-3ES5К(head)-2ES5К not penalized
*6194 -	Update graphics locomotives ТE109
*6197 -	Added locomotive EEl
*6239 -	CMV-encoded version of the ice-wagon with ceiling tanks
*6242 -	Added tanker 15-897
*6245 -	Added tanker 15-1566
*6278 -	Added electric locomotive VL82M
*6290 -	Made changes to the build system
*6315 -	Fixed bug - new electric locomotive 3ESК5К not went from depot
*6316 -	Fixed incorrect graphics on the electric locomotives VL11M и VL11u
*6321 -	Added a penalty on speed, if the locomotive head - cold section. The cold section not gives a penalty to speed
*6322 -	Fixed the names of the liveries N8
*6323 -	Code review. Applied function code long/short RS
*6328 -	Code review. Translations
*6350 -	Code review. Removed old code of reversal
*6352 -	Code review.  Replace get spriteset and get spritegroup on sprites
*6387 -	Fixed the use of graphics ТEM2U for ТEM2UM
*6402 -	Fixed empty sprite
*6448 -	Tanker 15-886. Fixed the graphics of the stairs
*6472 -	Update flatbed 13-198-02
*6483 -	All cars made randomly reverse
*6488 -	All RS added manufacturers
*6505 -	Generated table CC for all colors
*6537 -	Added 22-4024 Gondola for iron ore
*6538 -	Added 12-196-01 Gondola
*6539 -	Added 12-532 Gondola, fixed display of wood
*6544 -	Added 12-757 Gondola
*6545 -	Added 13-4012 flatbed
*6549 -	Added shunting locomotive Mх
*6569 -	Update graphics of locomotive 2ES6
*6608 -	Code review. Fixed several bugs with a valid structure MUs
*6614 -	Added EMUs ER200
*6631 -	Code review. Revised code of build for diesel MUs
*6633 -	Code review. The revised capacity of the boxcar 11-К651
*6634 -	Code review. Review of the capacities of the cargos for boxcars, support the missing cargos FIRS
*6635 -	Code review. Review of the capacities of the cargos for gondola cars, support the missing cargos FIRS
*6637 -	Code review. Banned non-diesel MUs (DR1A)
*6638 -	Code review. Extended life DR1B
*6650 -	Code review. Recalculation CERA, resolution BDMT for gondola NTV and others.
*6662 -	Added EMUs ER9P
*6663 - Add graphics of cargoes FIRS  for gondola cars
*6669 -	Update graphics of steams families E
*6674 -	Added EMUs ER9M and ER9E
*6684 -	Added electric locomotive EP20
*6685 -	Update graphics of electric locomotive EP2K
*6694 -	Fixed templates emu_*, ER9Е, ER9М, ER200 now lower the pantographs when transporting different composition
*6696 -	Added Refrigerator van МК 4-417
*6699 -	Added Refrigerator van МК 4-420
*6700 -	Added Refrigerator van МК 4-424
*6710 -	Update Refrigerator van ТН 4-200 
*6712 -	Added EMUs EVSС-1/EVS-2 "Sapsan"
*6715 -	Code review. Select another translation of the names for all colors in the form RAL
*6755 -	Added electric locomotive VL60pk
*6762 -	Added 61-4179 "Transformer" "coupe" couchette coach
*6763 -	Added locomotive ТEM7
*6769 -	Added EMUs ED4M
*6772 -	Added EMUs SR3
*6773 -	Added EMUs SR
*6774 - Update luggage car 61-517
*6780 -	Added luggage car 7 sb
*6782 -	Added electric locomotive EP1
*6783 - Added EMUs ER7
*6788 -	Added DMUs DR1A
*6794 -	Added permission to hook onto the locomotive DM62 to mashkotrain instead section 2M62U
*6798 - Added 61-4452 and 61-4453 "coupe" couchette coaches (for «Krasnaya strela»). Fixed sorting of list purchase, what same icons were near.
*6851 -	Added 11-280 Boxcar
*6887 -	Made check skirt on non-motorized car EMUs ER200. Skirt on the spot.
*6892 - Added support FIRS cargos - scrap metal, alcohol, beer, java 
*6896 -	Code review.  A departure from _sprites_2.
*6898 -	Made the car 23-4000 Flatbed for wood in 2 СС
*6911 -	Added EMUs Sm-6 Allegro
*6932 -	Fixed raising the current collectors with the wrong head of trains EVS and SM6
*6970 -	Added EMUs EM167
*6976 -	Updates features for EMUs "Sapsan"
*6977 -	Updates features for EMUs "Allegro"
*6978 -	Updates features for EMUs "Lastochka" (ES1)
*7017 -	Added graphics of cargos for Refrigerator van for food 16-1807-04
*7020 -	Code review. Made by combining some pre-serial versions with serial
*7024 -	Code review. Added upgrade as an upgrade and not a new locomotive.
*7029 -	Fixed bug: flour -> floor
*7060 -	Added Boxcar 2-axle canadian type
*7088 -	Update Normal goods van
*7135 -	Update Gondola on frame of NTV
*7145 -	Code review. The translation of all EMUs on the template.
*7146 -	Code review. The translation of all DMUs on the template
*7151 -	To all EMUs checked need for 4 types of head
*7153 -	Updated vertical views of EMUs ED4M
*7154 -	To all EMUs toupin doors, checked the lights
*7158 -	Code review. Duplicate code rendered in the templates
*7160 -	Added sprites from EMUs ER2
*7166 -	Added sprites from EMUs ER9P
*7170 -	Fixed vertical views of DMUs D
*7171 -	Finished the doors and checked the lights of AS1A and D/D1
*7175 -	Update Boxcar 2-axle canadian type
*7215 -	Code review. Replace function visual effect on create effect.
*7216 -	Code review. Replace function visual effect on create effect (Steams)
*7217 -	Code review. Replace function visual effect on create effect (Locomotives)
*7218 -	Code review. Replace visual effect on create effect (Electric locomotives)
*7219 -	Code review. Replace function visual effect on create effect (DMUs)
*7220 -	Code review. Replace visual effect on create effect (EMUs)
*7223 -	Code review. Removed freight/passenger liverys DSЗ
*7234 -	Code review. Combining models in one of the locomotives TGM23, TEP70, 2M62
*7235 -	Code review. Combining models in one of the steams IS, FD, L, E
*7237 -	Added steam locomotive Y
*7245 -	Code review. Combining models in one of the steams E, FD, IS
*7261 -	Code review. Removed heads 3-sections locomotives in the presence of analogues 2-sections
*7267 -	Code review. Change date based speed change to last service date based
*7270 -	Code review.  All freight cars are given to one type of cargo by default
*7272 -	Code review.  Checked lights at the electric locomotives VL10*
*7273 -	Changed capacity of mail cars. Fixed errors in boxcars 11-259, 11-38, 11-K651
*7275 -	Code review. Changed the capacity of the tankers
*7276 -	Code review. Changed the capacity of the hoppers
*7277 -	Code review. Changed the capacity of the dump cars
*7278 -	Code review. Changed the capacity of the isothermal wagons
*7279 -	Consider of wight of specialized packaging and containers of the isothermal wagons (ice-wagons)
*7289 -	The revised parameter engine_direction_template
*7292 -	Fixed graphics of the lights of the electric locomotives ChS2T, ChS4, ChS4T
*7293 -	Fixed pantographs, lights, windows of the electric locomotives EP10
*7295 -	Code review. Checked graphics of electric locomotives F and FP after translation to the template
*7296 -	Removed the change of the sprite in the buy menu for when RS no longer in production
*7302 -	Changed purchase price and the cost of maintenance of steam locomotives
*7303 -	Updated features of the steam E
*7304 -	Extended period of production of diesel locomotives 2M62U
*7305 -	Extended period of production of diesel locomotives  2TE10U
*7306 -	Extended period of production of diesel locomotives  2TE10UT
*7307 -	Installed costs and running costs for all locomotives
*7314 -	Installed costs and running costs for all electric locomotives DC
*7315 -	Installed costs and running costs for all electric locomotives AC
*7319 -	Fixed bug - all the livery of the locomotive TE3 look the same
*7326 -	Special refit made for locomotives 2M62U и DM62, which allows their use in diesel trains DRB1
*7330 -	Code review. Repainted red lights of the locomotive TEP70* in white.
*7331 -	Code review. Made the test graphics electric locomotives ChS4T, ChS2T, VL11
*7332 -	Code review. Created templates of change of properties on date for properties
*7333 -	Installed costs and running costs for all EMUs
*7334 -	Installed costs and running costs for all DMUs
*7337 -	Code review. Made order with animation
*7338 -	Update locomotive ТEM7
*7341 -	All passenger RS have the loading speed
*7343 -	Code review. Installed costs and running costs for all freight cars
*7344 -	Code review. Installed costs and running costs for all passenger cars
*7345 -	Allowed connection Stadler FLIRT on SMU (EPg+EPr)
*7351 -	Deployed code of locomotive ТEM7*
*7352 -	Code review. Deployed locomotive ТEM7* not code, but graphics. Along the way, fixed the template and fixed all using this code RS
*7353 -	Installed Cargo age period  сargo_age for passenger RS
*7354 -	Made order with polish cars in the table
*7356 -	Added locomotive ТE3 (1958-1973)
*7357 -	Replace graphics of locomotive ТEM1 at graphics ТEM2
*7363 -	Code review. Replaced template non-symmetric sparking on symmetric
*7369 -	Code review. Fixed bug - not work bitmask(TRIGGER_VEHICLE_SERVICE)
*7385 -	In window purchase to electric locomotives VL11 and VL11M raised the pantograph of right section
*7386 -	Fixed incorrectly specified time produced of steam L(4-6-2)
*7387 -	Fixed incorrectly specified time produced of steam E
*7388 -	Fixed the name IS21 in long names
*7389 -	Fixed not fully translated description of the locomotive 2TE10S
*7391 -	Fixed incorrectly specified time produced of electric locomotive VL8
*7392 -	Motorized car with pantograph ER200 was raised pantograph in the purchase window 
*7393 -	Code review. Naming cars ER200. Empty list in depot high speed railway AC
*7394 -	Code review. Naming the Luhansk plant depending from produced years of locomotive
*7398 -	Code review. Change constructional speed refs wuth cart KVZ-I2
*7413 -	Code review. Created a template of the description of the locomotive/wagon
*7431 -	Code review.  Depot livery available since 1990
*7454 -	Fixed bug - electric locomotive N60 (early VL60) no longer has SMU wuth VL60* 
*7466 -	Code review. Made clarification years the emergence of new liveries
*7510 -	In the series of the steam E is introduced 4 sub-series
*7515 -	Made translation of lines with name Lugansk plant
*7516 -	Fixed translation of lines in the description of electric locomotive VL61D
*7517 -	Made offer at locomotive ТEP70BS - pay-refit
*7522 -	Code review. Upholstery color hidden for short names
*7524 -	Fixed bug - ER200 allows up to 14 cars
*7525 -	Code review. Restored subtype MUs
*7526 -	At D1 liveries available at the year, and not immediately after construction
*7528 -	Returned lost the instructions about the possibility to join the 2nd train at MUs
*7530 -	14 m hard suburban coach divided into stages of production
*7531 -	Fixed bug - At the Riga plant since 1991 to bring in the name of the country (Latvia)
*7537 -	Fixed bug with empty list purchase in depot high-speed railway AC
*7546 -	Code review. To All RS with pay refit added in description, what is refit (reequipment)
*7559 -	Update diesel locomotive TGM3 and TGM4
*7577 -	Code review. Developed a new mechanism for reducing the runnig cost when working RS at SMU (system of many units)
*7585 -	Added EMUs ER22
*7590 -	Made recolor reverse electric locomotive F
*7631 -	Code review. Made  association models of one of the locomotives ТEM7 и ТEM2
*7632 -	Code review. Diesel locomotives of the refit section does not produce smoke when driving empty
*7635 -	Added hopper 19-9870 
*7636 - Added tanker 19 m3 of 1908
*7668 -	Fixed bug - F (French) - sprite glitch
*7671 -	Made the option to choose between autocorrect and sorting.
*7672 -	Added output loading speed and speed of the ageing of cargo in description RS
*7673 -	Code review. Added proposal at RE
*7675 -	Fixed error of costs refit of electric locomotive VL22M 
*7699 -	Added electric locomotive VL65
*7701 -	Fixed bug - confused the paint in the car "47 D hard "coupe" couchette coach":green chrome and sheet. 
*7719 -	Fixed wrong sprite in the purchase window for 61-185 2nd class open coach
*7720 -	Code review. Tanker 19 m3 of 1908
*7766 -	Code review. The change in the characteristics of electric locomotives VL22 и VL22M
*7767 -	Added steam locomotive U
*7768 -	Completed reverse from passenger, mail and baggage cars
*7769 -	Update 47 D hard "coupe" couchette coach (1950-1957-1963) in two versions
*7770 -	Update 47 D "coupe" couchette coach «white» (1964–1973) in two versions
*7771 -	Added 47 K "coupe" couchette coach «white» (1966–1973)
*7789 -	Code review. Updated the characteristics of the steam locomotive L (1914-1926)
*7790 -	Code review. Update the characteristics of a family of steam locomotives E (1912–1926)
*7791 -	Code review. Update electric locomotive VL19 and added the option to upgrade to VL19M
*7792 -	Code review. Full update of a family of electric locomotives VL60
*7793 -	Code review. Update the characteristics of a family of electric locomotives VL80K
*7794 -	Code review. Update the characteristics of a family of electric locomotives VL80T
*7795 -	Code review. Update the characteristics of a family of steam locomotives Su
*7796 -	Improvement traction characteristics all RS
*7798 -	Made the change of thrust on different kinds of current for electric locomotive VL82M
*7799 -	Fixed bug when DR1A do not change characteristics
*7806 -	Added Gyor "Mixt" hard-soft "coupe" couchette coach
*7817 -	Code review. Improved code lines for cars
*7819 -	Added a new livery for the compartment car Ammenforf D (1950–1963)
*7844 -	The improvement of the economy of passenger trains
*7845 -	Made the possibility of upgrading EVS2 to 300 km/h
*7847 -	Fixed icons passenger cars in the buy menu
*7861 -	Code review. Cancel SMU for ТEP70 (partially), ТEP70U, ТEP70BS
*7864 -	Added passenger wagon WLABmee
*7865 -	Fixed long names RS if a short list RS
*7866 -	Code review. The change in the speed of passenger cars Park
*7905 -	Update 7 sb Luggage car
*7906 -	Added 3 sb soft "coupe" couchette coach
*7907 -	Code review. Fix vehicles IDs
*7908 -	Code review. Remade connection correctly
*7919 -	Added EMUs SD
*7924 -	Added electric locomotive 2EV120
*7925 -	Fixed bug - speed of electric locomotive EP20 when refit on 201 km/h does not change when double-header
*7926 -	Made RS with 2 cargo (the ability to change capacity according to the second cargo not refit on this cargo, and refit livery main cargo)
*7927 - Added electric locomotive VL15S
*7928 -	Fixed bug - the tenders of the locomotives have a color company always
*7929 -	Code review. Removed all livery override
*7936 -	Fixed bug - steam locomotives produce smoke from all 4 parts and not only from the 1st
*7940 -	Fixed overestimated the capacity of electrosections 
*7967 -	Added the ability to specify the types of locomotives for the game
*7971 -	Fixed bug - EMUs electrosections no sparks
*7975 -	Code review. Introduced templates properties
*7977 -	Added electric locomotive 4ES5K
*7978 -	Fixed bug - all steam locomotives with tender are penalized for SMU
*7980 -	Fixed errors in livery "Arena-2000" ChS7
*7981 -	Correction of costs and running costs of electric locomotives 2ES4K и 2ES6
*7985 -	Added the hide paths, not used by locomotives, when they are disabled via the parameter
*7986 - Added SR3 luggage compartment
*7993 -	Fixed errors in Refrigerator van for food 16-1807-04
*7994 -	Fixed errors in Refrigerator van ТН 4-200
*7995 -	Fixed errors in 15-1566 Tanker
*7996 -	Fixed bugs in tankers
*7997 -	Fixed bug - using LOAD_TEMP(2) unacceptable in SW
*7999 - Added refit on the speed of the locomotive 2TE116U
*8000 - The changes of locomotives TGM3A и B
*8001 -	Added global sorting of cargo
*8013 -	Added locomotive 2TE25KM
*8033 -	Added electric locomotive VL85 in pre-serial and serial versions
*8039 - Added shunting locomotive TGK2
*8043 - Added shunting locomotive TEM18DM
*8052 -	Added railcar ACh2/APCh2 (DMU)
*8053 -	Added railcar RA1 (DMU)
*8062 -	Added EMUs ER2R
*8063 -	Added EMUs ER2T
*8076 - Added 13-36 flatbed
*8077 - Added 13-N453 flatbed
*8078 - Added 13-N451 flatbed
*8092 -	Added support for cargo VPTS
*8097 - Code review. Disable model name livery with short names in the menu
*8103 - Code review. Moved NOTE from the template in line.
*8106 - Code review. Remove purchase speed from template of speed
*8109 - Code review. Separated incompatible liveries in different files
*8118 - Code review. Return steams _all name subtype in the livery
*8121 - Added DPKr2 (DMU)
*8127 -	Update Gyor "Mixt" hard-soft "coupe" couchette coach
*8128 -	Made refit (reequipment) of speed 120/160 km/h for ТEP70NS in the livery RZhD
*8129 -	Fixed bug with mixed liveries of electric locomotives ChS7
*8135 - Code review. Update parameters of EMUs ER200
*8214 -	Update 3 sb soft "coupe" couchette coach
*8217 - Added information about the incompatibility of the models in the description
*8221 -	Added transportation DIAM (diamonds, gold) for all luggage cars
*8222 - Fixed bug -  do not run double the number of trains ED4М+ED4М at SMU
*8235 - Code review. Changing the speed characteristics of the locomotive ТE7
*8244 - Error correction with alignment of the rear section 2M62 on the vertical view
*8245 - Fixed error - steam locomotive L and tender look glued on view \
*8246 - Update switch the liveries to the luggage car 61-517
*8259 - Code review. Restore order to the livery of the Russian Railways
*8262 - Code review. Make the graphics the middle section of the locomotives in separate PNG files
*8265 - Fixed bug with zero speed locomotives in the buy menu
*8273 - Code review. Make the template livery_template_FP
*8275 - Code review. Expand engine_build_year_template
*8278 - Code review. Lead in order the locomotive TE3
*8294 - Fixed bug - refrigerated wagon for conversion to transport milk turns into a transparent yellow rectangles
*8324 - Update gondola 12-532
*8325 - Update gondola 12-132
*8339 - Update gondola 12-ХХ
*8340 - Update gondola 12-37
*8341 - Update gondola 12-515
*8342 - Update gondola 12-119
*8343 - Update gondola 12-757
*8344 - Update gondola 12-196-01
*8345 - Added gondola 12-P001
*8346 - Added gondola 12-P153
*8347 - Added gondola 12-141
*8348 - Added gondola 12-9046
*8355 - Added tanker 15-1210-01
*8356 - Added tanker 15-5157-04
*8359 - Added shunting locomotive М3/2
*8363 - Added steam locomotive 4-6-4К (P12)
*8367 - Code review. Unify railcars
*8368 - Added steam locomotive ChN (0-8-0)
*8371 - Added steam locomotive Izhitsa (0-8-0)
*8372 - Added 14 m 3 rd class hard suburban coach (2-axle)
*8373 - Fixed bug - flatbed 13-9808 empty without a shadow
*8374 - Update normal flatbed (30 feet)
*8375 - Added 2-axle flatbed (20 t)
*8380 - Added steam locomotive T (0-6-0) (13 and 51 type)
*8381 - Added boxcar 4-axle by Alexandrovsky plant
*8383 - Added tanker 10 m3 of 1872
*8384 - Added tanker 15 m3 of 1892
*8387 - Added tanker for milk 15-c858
*8388 - Added tanker 15-1522
*8389 - Added tanker 15-1593
*8390 - Fixed bug - in the locomotive Da graphics from a locomotive TE1
*8391 - Removed the bulk cargo transportation on modern platforms
====Main page XUSSR Set/EN====
[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main Page]]