==The definition of the section. The rules of the assembly of rolling stock on sections. The purpose of the circuit assembly.==
В xUSSR set the build of the rolling stock is carried out in sections (locomotives, DMUs and EMUs) and at build schemes (DMUs and EMUs).
Consider separately each method of build, to be better understood.
;Build in sections.
:Depending on the technical features every RS build at differently in sections. Relatively speaking, the section is one unit of RS in the train. Build in sections applies to all the locomotives and part of the MUs. In this case, all parameter-dependent SMU (system multiple unit). It is recommended to build in sections only those locomotives where there is a resolution at the SMU assembly in sections. But there are other values, which important to know, when you build the locomotives in sections.
: About how to collect in the sections of each locomotive type are listed separately on each page in the tables in the column "build Rules": 
::[https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/Steam/EN Steams] ; 
::[https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/diesel_locomotive/EN Diesel locomotives] ; 
::[https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/Electric_locomotive/EN Electric locomotives] ;  
:DMUs and EMUs can be built as sections and building rules.
::[https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/DMU_EMU/EN DMUs and EMUs] . 
:You need to consider the features of each type of locomotives.
*When building the sections of steam locomotives imposed the penalty of speed (see more details in section [https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/The_parameters_of_the_xUSSR_set./EN '''The parameters of the xUSSR set''']), as at SMU is not provided build in sections.
*When building the locomotives need to know the technical characteristics of each locomotive. In the set depending on the SMU locomotives you can collect from 1 to 4 sections. When you purchase should carefully see the description of each locomotive. If the player bought the locomotive, which to be collected only in three sections, and then you need to collect in three sections, otherwise not be able to run not assembled properly train. In three or four sections going to assemble locomotives, which provides the middle section, for example, 3М62U "Troinaia Mashka", 3ТE10М "Krokodil", 3ТE10U "Troing", 2ТE10 Ut "Utka", 4ТE10S. Also in 3 or 4 sections are collected locomotives without using the middle section, for example, 2ТE10М-К, 2ТE116 "Fantomas", 2ТE70, 2ТE25А.
*Electric locomotives depending on the technical characteristics are collected from 1 to 4 sections. It is important to pay attention to SMU of each locomotive. There are locomotives, which are collected only in section 1, 2, 3 or 4 sections.
*DMUs and EMUs depending on the technical characteristics are collected from 1 to 3 sections.
:Some examples for a better understanding of the build in sections: 
#DC electric locomotive SS (Suramski Sovetski) at SMU is collected up to 2 sections. This means that you can purchase a single electric locomotive SS, to connect with cars and run the assembled train, or to concatenate two SS electric locomotive, connect with the cars and run the assembled train. 
#DC electric locomotive VL8 "Wilhelm" at SMU is collected only in 2 sections. This means that it is necessary to buy two electric locomotive VL8, then connect with the cars and run the assembled train. When you try to start one section, you will see error, what should be collected in 2 sections. Also will not be able to attach cars, if there is only one section VL8.
#DC electric locomotive VL11 at SMU is collected from 2 to 4 sections. This means that you have to buy two sections of VL11, then connect with the cars and run the assembled train. Or you can buy 4 sections VL11.
#Electric locomotive AC ВЛ60 "Shestidesyatka" it is impossible to collect at SMU. This means that you can buy just one section VL60, then connect with the cars and run the assembled train.
#AC electric locomotive 2ES5K "Ermak" at SMU during the purchase can be collected only in two sections, later from 2 to 4 sections. This means that when buying you can only connect two sections of 2ES5K, converting afterwards from 2 up to 4 sections can be connected.
#Shunter locomotive ТEM7 at SMU is collected in 2 sections. This means that you can buy one or two sections ТEM7.
#Shunter locomotive ТGM23B "wheels 3.5" it is impossible to collect at SMU at sections. When you buy you can connect only one section ТGM23B with cars. While coupling in section 2 will be imposed a penalty in speed.
#Locomotive 2TE25A "Vityaz" at SMU is collected to 4 sections. When you buy you can connect from 1 to 4 sections of the locomotive 2TE25A.
#DC SD at SMU is collected in 1, 2 or 3 sections (each with three carriages). When you buy you can assemble a train in 1, 2 or 3 sections. For example, when connecting 2 sections will increase the total capacity to 612 passengers.
#DC EVS1 "Sapsan" (EMU) at SMU is collected in 1 or 2 sections (each of 10 cars). When you buy you can run 1 or 2 sections EVS1.
#ACDC ES1 "Lastochka" (EMU) at SMU is collected in 1 or 2 sections (each with 5 cars). When you buy you can run 1 or 2 sections ES1.
#Steam IS21 (2-8-4) (Iosif Stalin) at SMU cannot be assembled in sections. When you buy you can connect only 1 section IS21 with cars. When coupling 2 sections IS21 will be imposed a penalty in speed.

;Features of the build rules.
:Relatively speaking, this joining of each car according to certain rules at the composition. The build according to the rules used in diesel and electric MUs. In this case, each type DMUs and EMUs has own rule of assembly. Details about build rules described in the page [https://wiki.openttd.org/XUSSR_Set/DMU_EMU/EN DMUs and EMUs] in tables.
:'''Features:'''
*You need to collect on the scheme, which are selected by the player DMUs and EMUs.
*In the case of incorrect assembly will be message "no traction".
*In the early game it is better to use a circuit build with a small number of cars (DMU - 2, 3 cars, EMU - the first or the second scheme), to justify the annual maintenance cost.
:Some examples of build rules:
#DMU D is collected on scheme '''"М - (0..1C) - М"''', you can join another train. Explanation at scheme: '''М''' - motorized car, '''C''' - car; build options for trains - '''М + М, М + C + М, (М + М) + (М + М), (М + C + М) + (М + C + М)'''.
#DMU DR1 is collected on scheme '''"М - (0..4C) - М"'''. Explanation at scheme: '''М''' - motorized car, '''C''' - car; build options for trains - '''М + М, М + C + М, М + C + C + М, М + C + C + C + М, М + C + C + C + C + М'''.
#EMU ER1 is collected on scheme '''"4, 6, 8 or 10 cars (HMMH, HMCММH, HMCММCМH илм HMCМCММCМH)"'''. Explanation at scheme: '''H''' - head car, '''М''' - motorized car, '''C''' - car.

====Main page XUSSR Set/EN====
[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main Page]]