[[Translation:en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main Page]]



{{en/Community/NewGRF/Infobox NewGRF|setname= xUSSR Set
|screenshot= en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main screenshot EN 1.png
|artist= George, Wowan, Simozzz, Ghost, Rubiroid, Engineer_Keen, Otecan, LitNik
|coder= George 
|focus= en/Community/NewGRF/Addons Trains
|homepage=forums.ttdrussia.net/viewforum.php?f=26
|homepagename= xUSSR Set at ttdrussia.net
|copyright= copyrighted
}}
The '''xUSSR Railway Set''' includes locomotives, DMUs, EMUs and other rolling stock from the former [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russian Empire Russian Empire], [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soviet Union Soviet Union], the [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonwealth_of_Independent_States CIS] and several countries contained within the former USSR. All vehicles are drawn in realistic extended scale, exceeding original Transport Tycoon graphics. All technical features such as power, tractive effort, capacity, production date etc. are based on pecularities and functionality of real vehicles.


== [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Railway tracks| Railway tracks]] ==
The term "Railway tracks". Types of railway tracks in xUSSR set.

== Rolling stock ==
[//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rolling_stock '''Rolling stock'''] (RS) — movable rail units intended for the transportation of goods and passengers by rail. The set includes following types of rolling stock:
===[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Steam|Steam locomotives]]===
The term "Steam locomotive". Types of steam locomotives.

===[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Diesel locomotive|Diesel locomotives]]===
The term "Diesel locomotive". Types of diesel locomotives.

===[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Electric locomotive| Electric locomotives]]===
The term "Electric locomotive". Types of electric locomotives.

===[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/DMU EMU| DMUs and EMUs]]===
The term "DMU". The term "EMU". Types of DMUs and EMUs.

=== [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Freight wagon| Freight wagons]] ===
The term "Freight wagon". Types of freight wagons.

===[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Passenger wagon| Passenger wagons]] ===
The term "Passenger wagon". Types of passenger wagons.

==Economy of the xUSSR set==
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Types of tracks in xUSSR set|Types of tracks in xUSSR set]] - Basic information about various types of railway tracks in the xUSSR set.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Application of tracks in the game|The application of different track types]] - Tips on which track type to use in which situation and how to effectively combine different types together.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Main features of rolling stock|Main features of the rolling stock]] - Basic information about various characteristics of the xUSSR trains and wagons and their interpretation.
*[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Buy the rolling stock|Buying the rolling stock]] - What you should take into account in order to buy the right pieces of rolling stock. Basic information about SMU (System of many units) and the penalty applied to trains which are wrongly assembled without keeping their SMU characteristics in mind.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Concept of the term section|The definition of the term "Section"]] - The rules of building trains composed of sections. 
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Availability of trains in different time periods|The availability of rolling stock in different time periods]] - Information about what trains and wagons will be available depending on the time period and when it's possible to start the game.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Parameters of the xUSSR set|The parameters of the xUSSR set]] - What GRF parametres can be configured in the xUSSR set and the impact they have on gameplay.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Replacement upgrade purchase and sale of rolling stock|Replacement, upgrade, purchase and sale of rolling stock]] - How to effectively replace obsolete/expired pieces of rolling stock and how to choose the right replacement for them.
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Features passenger transportation|Classes of passenger wagons and MUs]] - The differences between various types/classes of passenger wagons (sleeping wagons, coupe wagons, platzcarts,...) and what impact they have on profit of the train based on speed and distance travelled.

== [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Painting and liveries in xUSSR set| Painting and liveries in xUSSR set]]  ==
Information about the colors and liveries in the xUSSR set and how to repaint pieces of rolling stock.

==[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Tips for beginners| Tips for beginners]] ==
Few basic tips for the players who have decided to play with the xUSSR set for the first time.

== [[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Screenshots gallery| Screenshot gallery]] ==
Screenshots from the game with the xUSSR set.

==[[en/Community/NewGRF/XUSSR Set/Change history|Changelog]]==
History of changes made to the xUSSR set. Includes a list of changes since version 0.2.

==External Links==
* [//forums.ttdrussia.net/viewforum.php?f=26 Russian forum]
* [//www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=14582 English forum]
* [//www.disk.yandex.ru/d/IbmQKHTDa9dFZQ Nightly versions]
* [//www.github.com/George-VB/xussrset/releases Stable versions] OR in game with '''Content Download''' button
* [//www.github.com/George-VB/xussrset/issues Bugtracker]
* [//www.discord.com/invite/yweeNDVYks Discord server]

== See also ==
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] Documentation
* [[en/Community/NewGRF/Main Page]] &mdash; A list of working GRF files in OTTD.
* [[en/Archive/Community/NewGRF FAQ]] &mdash; Answers to frequent questions and problems using GRF files in OpenTTD.
* [[en/Manual/NewGRF]] &mdash; The NewGRF Settings window is a new feature which allows better management of NewGRF files. 
* [[en/Archive/Lists/NewGRF Sets]] &mdash; A list of articles about NewGRF sets.

[[Category:en/Community/NewGRF/NewGRF Sets]]