[[Translation:en/Archive/Old 32bpp/FAQ 32 bit graphics]]

{{en/Dostupnost|1.2}}

Odgovori na najčešća pitanja vezana za 32 bitnu grafiku u OpenTTD.

===Instalirao sa verziju 1.2.x, zašto 32 bitna grafika više ne funkcioniše?===

Metod prikaza 32 bitne grafike u samoj igri promenjen je sa png grafike unutar tar fajlova u [[sr/Alternativna Grafika (NewGRF)|Alternativnu grafiku(NewGRF)]]. Opcija učitavanja 32 bitne grafike iz png/tar fajlova nije dostupna od verzije OpenTTD 1.2.0 i ubuduće.

===Gde mogu da preuzmem NewGRF sa 32 bitnom grafikom?===

Pogledajte [[sr/Spisak 32 bitne alternativne grafike|Spisak 32 bitne alternativne grafike]].

===Imao sam mnogo više 32 I used to have many more 32 bit graphics before OpenTTD 1.2.0, where are they?===

Many 32 bit graphics have not yet been converted from the old format to NewGRFs. This process takes time and is frustrated by license issues. Feel free to [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=36 help out], sorting out the license stuff and converting the remaining GPL licensed graphics to NewGRF format.

If you want to keep all 32 bit graphics you had previously (including the ones with unclear or restictive licenses), you'll have to do the conversion yourself. knuckles88 has posted [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=1026754#p1026754 instructions] on how to do that.

===I’ve loaded 32 bit NewGRFs, but the graphics are not there. How come?===

It is possible that the 32 bit NewGRF(s) you're using did not request a 32 bit blitter, or the request for the 32 bit blitter failed. In this case you need to exit OpenTTD and change the blitter manually in the configuration file.

Where to find the configuration file is explained in the [[en/Readme.txt]]. It is generally located in an OpenTTD folder inside your personal directory. Find the <code>openttd.cfg</code> file and open it with a plain text editor. In the <code>[misc]</code> section, locate the <code>blitter =</code> entry. Replace this line with <code>blitter = 32bpp-anim</code>, or alternatively add it as an additional line to the end of the <code>[misc]</code> section. Save the file and start OpenTTD.

If you're having troubles with this blitter (game slowed down a lot, or still no 32 bit graphics), then you can try two other blitters. Instead of <code>blitter = 32bpp-anim</code> try <code>blitter = 32bpp-optimized</code> (same as previous, no animation) or <code>blitter = 32bpp-simple</code> (slowest, but reliable).

If you still don't see 32 bit graphics, first make sure that you actually have 32 bit NewGRFs activated and secondly that you've actually followed the instructions correctly.





[[Category:sr/Alternativna grafika (NewGRF)]]
[[Category:sr/Najčešća pitanja]]