[[Translation:en/Archive/Lists/Links]]
{{es/Manual/Tabla de contenido}}

==Enlaces específicos de OpenTTD==
*[http://www.openttd.org Sitio web oficial]
*[[es/Descargar|Descargar]] OpenTTD
*Página del proyecto OpenTTD en [http://sourceforge.net/projects/openttd SourceForge]
*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=55 Foros de debate]
*[irc://irc.oftc.net/openttd Canal IRC]
*[[es/Archive/Manual/Solución de problemas|Solución de problemas]]

==OpenTTD en Wikipedia==
*[http://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Català] (Catalán)
*[http://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Česky] (Checo)
*[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Dansk] (Danés)
*[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Deutsch] (Alemán)
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD English] (Inglés)
*[http://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Suomi] (Finés)
*[http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Español]
*[http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Français](Francés)
*[http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Tycoon Italiano]
*[http://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Magyar] (Húngaro)
*[http://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Bahasa Indonesia] (Indonesio)
*[http://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 日本語] (Japonés)
*[http://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 한국어] (Coreano)
*[http://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Latviešu] (Letón)
*[http://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Nederlands] (Neerlandés)
*[http://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Norsk (bokmål)](Noruego)
*[http://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Polski] (Polaco)
*[http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Português] (Portugués)
*[http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Русский] (Ruso)
*[http://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Slovenčina] (Eslovaco)
*[http://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Slovenščina] (Esloveno)
*[http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Svenska] (Sueco)
*[http://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD Türkçe] (Turco)
*[http://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenTTD 中文] (Chino)

==Enlaces generales sobre Transport Tycoon==
*(en) [http://www.transporttycoon.net/ Owen's Transport Tycoon Station]
*(en) [http://i-want-a-website.com/about-tt/ Transport Tycoon Semi-FAQ]
*(en) [http://www.nylon.net/ttd/index.html The relatively holy Church of Transport Tycoon]
*(en) [http://o-keating.com/ttd/ Oliver Keating's Transport Tycoon Deluxe Site]
*(en) [http://www.tt-terminal.co.uk Transport Tycoon Terminal]
*(en) [http://www.tycoongames.net/ttdpages.html Transport Tycoon Deluxe Pages]
*(en) [http://linkage.tt-forums.net/ Colección de enlaces de TT-Forums], incluyendo algunos que no aparecen aquí.

. Your favorite jusiftication appeared to be on the net the simplest factor to take into account of. I say to you, I definitely get irked even as folks consider issues that they just dont realize about. Need ? Check out my new site! You controlled to hit the nail upon the top and also outlined out the entire thing with no need side effect , other folks can take a signal. Will probably be again to get more. Thank you again.

==Enlaces sobre gráficos==
* [[es/Community/NewGRF/Main Page|Lista NewGRF]] Lista de nuestros sets gráficos.
* [http://grfcrawler.tt-forums.net/ GRFCrawler] Una base de datos de archivos NewGRF.

* Gestión de archivos GRF
:*(en) [http://ttdpatch.de.vu Gestión de gráficos]
:*(en/fr) [http://www.antp.be/ttd/ Herramienta de traducción de vehículos]

*Editar y hacer gráficos NewGRF
:*[http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/grfcodec/ GRFCodec]
:*[http://dev.openttdcoop.org/projects/nforenum/ NFORenum]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=6326 GRF Creator]
:*[http://www.divxland.org/ttd/grfwizard.htm GRF Wizard]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=4968 LibGrf]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=6002 Palette Documentation]
:*[http://users.tt-forums.net/purno/PDT/index.php Purno's Drawing Tutorials] (no funciona) 
:*[http://wiki.ttdpatch.net/tiki-index.php?page=DrawingSprites Tutorial. Drawing new graphics by George]
:*[http://ade.se/projects/wingrf/wingrf.zip WinGrf.zip]

*Conversión de Gráficos
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=4447 Conversión Win-DOS]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=236890#236890 Conversor WIN-DOS GRF]
:*[http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=5226 Herramienta de conversión GRDtoGRF]

[[Category:es/Manual/Juego]]
[[Category:es/NewGRF]]