{{en/Community/Scenarios/Scenario|title=CarstsMonsterScenario_v3
|minimap=en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsMonsterScenarioBig.png
|screenshot=en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsMonsterScenarioSmall.png
|description=Map information
* This is a true monster scenario based in a fantasy world. It is just more or less flat land, not much water, hundreds of towns and industries. It is very easy to play this scenario, it allows all kind of vehicles, also ships/tankers on the sides of the map.
* In the beginning it was just an test map for the new size of 2048x2048 when 0.50(RC2) was released. But is fun if you only want to play a huge map with lot of cities and industries.
* Cities have sizes up to 52000, but most of them are between 3000 and 20000 inhabitants.
* '''NOTICE''': 4 GRFs installed => [[en/Community/NewGRF/DBSet|DB Set v0.82 (XL)]], [[en/Community/NewGRF/NewStations|NewStations v0.42]], PlaneSet and GermanTramSet. You should be able to play the scenario without these GRFs, but a message will show up that they are missing. Download all 4 of them: [http://www.carstenrau.de/diverses/openttd/grfs.zip Download]
* '''NOTICE2''': Scenario Download is a zip-file. You need to unzip it into your scnearios folder, it includes a version starting in 1920 and one starting in 1950.<br>
<br>
Click on my name to see my other maps!
|difficulty=Easy
|setting=[[en/Manual/Climates]]
|size=2048x2048
|relief=Flat
|towns=High
|industries=High
|realworld=Fantasy world, flat land, big towns
|version=0.5.x and above
|author=CARST
|download_url=http://www.carstenrau.de/diverses/openttd/CarstsMonsterScenario_v3.zip
}}