{{en/Community/Scenarios/Scenario|title=CarstsWorldScenario
|minimap=en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsWorldScenarioBig.png
|screenshot=en/Community/Scenarios/CarstsWorldScenarioSmall.png
|description=Map Information
* Based on geographic heightmap (by satelite data, but non-srtm).
* Some hundred cities, all based manually, but nearly on their real places. Included are the 150 largest agglomerations of towns, all towns with more than 1 million inhabitants, in some countries even the towns over 500.000 inhabitants, all capitals, all capitals of US and canadian states/territories.
* Countries included: Whole planet earth with all countries.
* Cities have sizes from <100 to 37.000 inhabitants. All real world inhabitants of towns or regions (agglomerations of towns) are divided by 1000, so a town of 4 million inhabitants has 4000.
* Starts in 1920 or 1950 (2 versions included in zip-file download)
* A lot of industries, all planted manually, oil- and coal-industry based on real world data.
* '''NOTICE''': Scenario can only be played with [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=33&t=33137 extra-large-maps-patch] by Bilbo. Download a complete compiled version of OpenTTD inclusive this and other patches (close&update airports) and GRFs [http://web1.delta234.server4you.de/diverses/openttd/OpenTTD_cr_allinone_v4.zip here].
* '''NOTICE2''': 4 GRFs installed => [[en/Community/NewGRF/DBSet|DB Set v0.82 (XL)]], [[en/Community/NewGRF/NewStations|NewStations v0.42]], PlaneSet and GermanTramSet. You should be able to play the scenario without these GRFs, but a message will show up that they are missing. Download all 4 of them: [http://web1.delta234.server4you.de/diverses/openttd/grfs.zip Download]
* '''NOTICE3''': Scenario Download is a zip-file. You need to unzip it into your scnearios folder, it includes a version starting in 1920 and one starting in 1950.<br>
<br>
Click on my name to see my other maps!
|difficulty=Normal
|setting=[[en/Manual/Climates]]
|size=8192x4096
|relief=Mixed
|towns=Normal
|industries=Normal
|realworld= [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth World]
|version=0.7.0 and up
|author=CARST
|download_url=http://web1.delta234.server4you.de/diverses/openttd/CarstsWorldScenario_v3.zip
}}