[[Translation:en/Community/Scenarios/Cindini]]
This article aims to organize the work on Whopper's unfinished africa map ([http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=30769&postdays=0&postorder=asc&start=0 TT-Forums Thread]). More details will follow soon.

== Introduction ==

For a short introduction and a little background information some quotes Whopper's [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?t=30769 forum post]:

''"During an internship in Afrika I had to fill in many hours of free time on an ancient computer, so I had to find a game that didn't need a good computer and that could take you ocupied for ages: so I downloaded good old TTD.''

''The only thing I always hated about TTD was that the infrastructure of cities was terrible and that a city always was nothing more then a big mess of streets and buildings put together. So I started making a Latin American/ carribean based map and tried to make the cities more realistic and real.''

''Unfortunately you can't customly place buildings like in Locomotion so I needed to create the cities with a hugh amount of placing roads deleting and expanding.''

''Now I am back home I unfortunately don't have the amount of time anymore to finish the map but I hoped that someone might be interested in helping me out?"''


and


''"You really don't want to know how much time I spend on it, especially the big cities take a hugh amount op effort :-)''

''I would like help from people to finish it, because I know that if I am going to do the rest on my own with my current lack of free time that it will take ages. So if you are creative, have some knowledge about city infrastructure, enoug free time and would like to help finish this map, pls mail me @ marijnheitkamp@gmail.com''

''It's on the largest map size of open TTD, the northern part is almost finished so I think it's about 40% done."''


You could also view many screenshots what is done so far following the above link to the forums thread.

== Project Team ==

* Whopper - project leader/owner
* Sleepie - volunteer

== Guides & Rules for building certain things ==

This section is for volunteers and contains information how to do certain things to ensure the quality standard.

Contents will follow.

== Project Organization ==

This section is about ''Who'' is working on ''What'' and ''When''. The idea is to split the map in several (virtual) regions. Each region represents a sub-project of the whole thing. These sub-projects will be assigned to one (max. three) volunteers who will work on this until it's finished. The sub-projects will be marked with signs on the map. Additional signs that provide information about who is working on that project, what is the state (Unclaimed|Planning|WorkInProgress(%)|Finished) of it and so on might be also useful. Besides this further (detailed) information should be documented at the wiki. So we will get a 'changelog' of the progress. Discussing things could be done using several ways using the wiki, the forum, email or instant messaging, whatever is appropriate.
Because it's not possible to split the map physically some kind of project schedule is necessary to organize who can work when.


{| border="1"
|+ '''Table of sub-projects'''
|-
! Project !! Assigned To !! State !! Last Update !! Remarks
|-
| 01 Finished Example || Whopper
!class="checked" | Finished || 2007-03-01 || Finished part
|-
| 02 Work in Progress Example || Whopper
!class="wip" | In progress (50%) || 2007-03-03 || The project that is currently worked on
|-
| 03 Unclaimed Example || Unclaimed
!class="unclaimed" | Unclaimed || || Actually nobody is working on this
|}

== Comments & Suggestions ==

If you have any comments or suggestions to this project just add it here (please don't forget to sign your comments).