[[Translation:en/Community/Junctionary/Junction Criteria]]
{{ko/Community/Junctionary/교차로}}
==Junction Criteria==
This is a list to clarify the usefulness of a junction. 
Every item is should be listed in all junctions as a pro or con.
Use this [[Template:en/Community/Junctionary/Junction Criteria|template]].

===Definition of a Junction===
a junction where two or more railway lines meet or cross

==Attributes==

===Sharpest turn===
* Minimum distance between double bends
* See [[en/Community/Corners]], [[en/Manual/Game Mechanics/Main Page#trains]] (speed tables)

===Cost (aprox)===
* Approximate cost in dollars ($)

===Construction difficulty===
* Ease of memorizing
* How much time it will take



===Backup===
* Backup is when trains are waiting to enter the junction

===Deadlock (Gridlock or Jamming)===
* Deadlock is when a train can NOT exit the junction therefor causing a backup

===Elevation (Hills)===
* Trains go up or down hills while in the junction

===Tunnels=== 
* Junction uses tunnels.

===Bridges===
* Junction uses bridges.

===Natural Turns=== 
* Trains turn left for left.
* (opposite) Trains must turn right to turn left. This could lead (although very rare) to trains getting lost. (Can be fixed by using [[en/Manual/Waypoints]])

===Split before merge===
* Whether or not tracks split before they merge. (This leads to less backup if they do.)

===Train Length (max or min)===
* Maximum or minimum length of a train

===Area===
* Width and Height represented as WxH

===Direct===
* A lane that goes straight through without any turns
* (Opposite) Indirect path

===Symmetrical===
* In neither, one, or two axes

===U-turn and Loops===
* U-turns are fine as long as they do NOT loop around to them selves
* Roundabout is an exception due to its design style.

===Signal type===
* Original, Pre-Signal, or PBS.

===Breakdowns===
* How any one broken down train will effect the junction
* From total shutdown to blocking one lane.

===Classification===
* Single Line
** One track 
* Single Mainline
** One track each direction
* Dual Mainline
** Two tracks each direction
* Dual Isolated Mainline
** Two tracks each direction
** The inner and outer tracks do not merge at any point


[[Category:en/열차 교차로]]