[[Translation:en/Community/Junctionary/Main Page]]
{{es/Traducción|en/Community/Junctionary/Main Page|0}}
{{es/Ampliar}}
{{es/Community/Junctionary/Menú de Cruces}}{{es/Manual/Tabla de contenido}}

Los '''cruces''' se forman en cualquier punto donde una vía se une (o se bifurca) o se cruza con otra vía ([https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/es:aparato de vía desvíos y travesías]). En OpenTTD, todas las referencias a los cruces se hacen casi siempre refiriéndose al transporte ferroviario, ya que en los demás medios de transporte, o bien no los necesitan o su construcción no tiene importancia para el juego.

En casi todos los casos, son necesarias [[es/Manual/Señales|señales]] para evitar que los trenes se estrellen. Los cruces pueden variar desde muy simples hasta muy complejos, en función del número de desvíos, la dirección en que los trenes circulen y el número de trenes que espera que lo utilicen en un momento dado.

==Consejos sobre la construcción de cruces==
{{es/Pendiente de traducción}}

* Sharp corners slow down trains.  Use at least 2 track segments between 45&deg; turns.
* S-shape bends do not slow down trains.
* Climbs slow down trains greatly, unless you are using the [[en/Archive/Manual/Settings/Realistic acceleration]] patch.  Avoid ramps on the most important lines in the junction.
* Bridges that are less than 4 track segments long (from start to finish) have lower speed limits. To avoid this, make your bridges at least 4 tiles long
* Tunnels do not have speed limits.
* Gridlock can happen in junctions that have merges before exits.  Try to make the merges after the exits.
* Trains that have to wait for another train to pass before it can merge can cause traffic jams.  Try to make each exit branch longer than your trains.

==See also==
* [http://www.transporttycoon.net/rail Owen's Transport Tycoon Station - Rail Fundamentals]
* [http://www.transporttycoon.net/junctions Owen's Transport Tycoon Station - Rail Junctions]
* [http://uwe.s2000.ws/ttdx/network/junctions.php?lang=en TTDX Railway Guide: Junctions]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=251709#251709 OTTD-FORUM: Your favorite junction/station layouts? Pros and cons!]
* [http://wiki.openttdcoop.org/Junctionary #openttdcoop Junctionary]
* [[:Category:en/Manual/Train Junctions]]
* [[en/Community/Corners]]