This is an incomplete [[en/Community/NewGRF/Main Page | list of NewGRFs]] sorted by region. This list may not contain all current updates, and both authors and registered visitors are encouraged to provide updates as they are known and become available. 

= Global Sets =
'''[[en/2CC Sets]]''' representing trains, trams and buses from around the world in player's dual company colors (2CC) rather than regional liveries. 

'''World Airliners Set''' represents a global variety of many common makes and models of plains in specific company and regional liveries. 

= Africa =
== Africa General ==
There are currently no sets dedicated towards Africa. 

= Asia =
== Asia General ==
== China ==
== Japan == 
'''Hargs' Narrow Gauge Japanese Trains''' is a small set of narrow-gauge rail trains from Japan, starting in 1920. 
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?p=106290 Discussion] | [http://www.tt-forums.net/download/file.php?id=171510 Download]

'''[[en/Japan Set]]''' is a group NewGRFs dedicated to simulating transportation in Japan. The set includes trains, trams, stations, town buildings, town names, signals and landscapes. 
* [http://www.as-st.com/ttd/japan/ Website] | Discussion | Downloads 
== Korea == 
== Taiwan ==

= Europe =
== Europe General ==
== Czech Republic == 
== France ==
== Germany ==
== Hungary == 
== Italy == 
== Slovakia == 
== Spain ==
== Switzerland == 
== United Kingdom == 

= Middle East =
== Middle East General == 

= North America =
== North America General == 
== Canada ==
== Mexico == 
== United States ==


= Central & South America = 
== Central & South America General == 

= Oceana =
== Oceana General == 
== Australia ==
== New Zealand ==