This page will collect the various designs, drafts and other thoughts about the new multilayer map array.

==Status==
Currently, the map struct has been finalized. As of now, no commits are made in the svn trunk. There is already a branch ('map') that will be used to put all changes in. When they are finished and stable, they will be merged back into trunk.
TODO
* Enums (constant definitions) for every field in the map structs.
* More comments in the map structs, especially listing which structs are used for what field.
* Some more proze describing how the map works
* Function prototypes for functions that manipulate and query the map
* Converting all code to the new map array.

The last point is of course the most work, and we have some nice info on how to do that in the [[en/MapRewriteConvertHowto]].

==Design==
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteDesign|The final design]]

==Progress==
*[[en/MapRewriteProgress|Progress on the rewrite]]


Most of the stuff below is not up to date, but is useful as a reference.

==Documents==
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteMatthijsFirst|First draft by Matthijs]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/Miscellaneous suggestions/MapRewriteMivladFirst|First draft by mivlad]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteDarkvaterFirst|First draft by Darkvater]]
*[[en/MapRewriteDominikThoughts|Some thoughts by Dominik]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteTron|Draft by Tron]]
**[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteTron2| Another interesting alternative from Tron]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteMatthijsSecond|Second draft by Matthijs]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteVurlix|Vurlix original rewrite]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/Miscellaneous suggestions/MapRewriteCelestar|Draft by Celestar]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapRewriteTruelight|Yet an other draft, by TrueLight]]
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapReWriteDarkvater|Second complete draft by Darkvater...needs optimization]]

==Final idea==
*[[en/Archive/Development/MapReWriteFinal|Final draft of the struct]]
**[[en/Archive/Development/Miscellaneous suggestions/MapReWriteComments|Some comments]]