[[Translation:en/Basesets/OpenSFX]]

'''OpenSFX''' is a free/libre set of base sounds for OpenTTD, so that OpenTTD can be played without requiring the (copyrighted) files from the TTD CD. This potentially increases the OpenTTD fanbase.

OpenSFX is 'free' as in 'free beer' and as in 'freedom'. The OpenSFX sounds are currently licensed under CC Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported.

==Downloading OpenSFX==
OpenSFX is available from at least three locations. This readme will only cover the official download locations. We cannot support third party download locations and we cannot refund your money if you have paid money for OpenSFX.

===Getting a Stable Release===
There's two places where you can get the latest stable release:
* If you're new to OpenTTD and don't have access to the original TTD files, you'll have to download and install OpenSFX manually. This is really not that difficult as it may sound, so don't worry too much about that.
** '''Download location''': https://www.openttd.org/downloads/opensfx-releases/latest
** '''Installation instructions''': [[#installing-opensfx-manually|Installing OpenSFX Manually]].
* If you already have OpenTTD up and running using the original TTD base sounds, the ingame Online Content service is the easy way to obtain OpenSFX.
** '''Download location''': use the ingame [[en/Manual/Online content]] service;
** '''Installation instructions''': [[#installing-or-updating-opensfx-using-the-online-content-service|Installing OpenSFX using the Online Content service]].

==Installing OpenSFX Manually==
'''1.''' First, make sure that you've [http://www.openttd.org/ downloaded] and [[en/Manual/Installation|installed]] at least '''OpenTTD version 0.8.0''' or a recent [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]].

'''2.''' Next, download the latest OpenSFX package. ([https://www.openttd.org/downloads/opensfx-releases/latest.html latest version])

'''3.''' Unpack the zip into the OpenTTD /data directory. There's no need to unpack the [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar (file format) tar file], so just leave it as it is.
Your OpenTTD /data directory is either located in:
* An OpenTTD folder in your user account's home directory:
** Windows XP: C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\My Documents\OpenTTD
** Windows Vista: C:\Users\<username>\Documents\OpenTTD\data
** Mac OSX: ~/Documents/OpenTTD
** Linux:   ~/.openttd
* The OpenTTD installation directory.

'''4.''' Run OpenTTD. 

'''5.''' In the main menu of the game, click the ''Game Options'' button. The ''Game Options'' dialog will appear.

'''6.''' Select ''OpenSFX'' from the drop-down list below ''Base sound set'' if that's not selected already (bottom left of window). Close the window using the &times; in the upper left corner.

Now that wasn't so hard, was it? Anyways, if you're having trouble getting OpenSFX to work, please file a detailed report on what you did, what error messages you got and where you got stuck in the OpenSFX release topic at TT-forums: http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=44761&hilit=opensfx


==Installing or Updating OpenSFX using the Online Content service==
This method uses the [[en/Manual/Online content]] service (BaNaNaS) to download OpenSFX. In order to use this, you need a working OpenTTD and again at least '''OpenTTD version 0.8.0''' or a recent [[en/Archive/Community/Nightly build]].

'''1.''' Start OpenTTD and on the main menu click the ''Check online content'' button. A new window will pop up.
* If OpenTTD doesn't start, follow the [[#installing-opensfx-manually|manual installation procedure]].

'''2.''' Find the OpenSFX entry from the list at the left. You can use the search box in the upper right corner of the window.

'''3.''' Click the little square in front of the OpenSFX entry in order to mark it for download.

'''4.''' Click the ''Download'' button in the bottom right corner. After download, close the open windows.

'''5.''' In the main menu of the game, click the ''Game Options'' button. The ''Game Options'' dialog will appear.

'''6.''' Select ''OpenSFX'' from the drop-down list below ''Base Sounds set'' if that's not selected already (bottom left of window). Close the window using the &times; in the upper left corner.
* This is where you can switch base sound sets.


==Technical and licensing details==

Sounds should be uploaded as 44,100Hz, 16-bit mono WAV or FLAC files. There will be a new sound file format developed for OpenTTD, likely using .tar files in a manner similar to that of the new sounds. Until then, tools will be made available to enable work to go on using the existing sample.cat format.

For ensuring that resulting sample.cat (or tar) file may be distributed freely with OpenTTD code, all sound files must have some kind of [https://freedomdefined.org/Definition free culture license]. Appropriate are the CC0, CC BY, and CC BY-SA licenses. [https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_domain Public domain] is also acceptable.

If sourcing sound effects from free libraries online, please ensure they are in the Public Domain or under a free culture license.

===See also===
* [[en/Development/SoundIDs]]: List of sound IDs, useful if you want to make your own sound pack

== External links ==
* [https://github.com/OpenTTD/OpenSFX Tracker for sound replacement project]
* [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewtopic.php?f=29&t=44761 Sound replacement project]