[[Translation:en/Archive/Source/OpenTTDDevBlackBook/Window/TextEdit]]
{{en/Development/Navigation}}
{{en/Outdated}}


The way users interact with edit boxes is influenced by the [[en/Archive/Source/OpenTTDDevBlackBook/Window/WidgetFocus|widget focus system]]. This page describes what modifications that are necessary to add a text box to a window that do not have it yet. 

== Checklist for adding a text box to a window ==

* Add a constant for the widget index eg. OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT (OP = Order Pizza window). Follow the naming pattern of the other widgets in the same window.


* Add an edit box to the nested widget array:

 NWidget(WWT_EDITBOX, COLOUR_WHITE, OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT), 
   SetDataTip(STR_ORDER_PIZZA_NUM_PIZZAS_OSKTITLE, STR_ORDER_PIZZA_NUM_PIZZAS_TOOLTIP),
(should be on one line, but has been broken up on two lines here on the wiki to avoid horizontal scrolling)


* Make the window class derive from QueryStringBaseWindow instead of just Window.

 OrderPizzaWindow(const WindowDesc *desc, WindowNumber number) : 
   QueryStringBaseWindow(MAX_NUM_PIZZA_STRING_LENGTH)
(should be on one line)


* In your constructor you must do:

 InitializeTextBuffer(&this->text, this->edit_str_buf, 
   this->edit_str_size, MAX_NUM_PIZZA_STRING_LENGTH);
(should be on one line)

If you want to focus the edit box by default when the window opens, call the SetFocusedWidget function:

 this->SetFocusedWidget(OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT);


* Make sure that OnMouseLoop is implemented and make it call HandleEditBox. If you don't do this, the carret will not flash when the edit box is focused.

 virtual void OnMouseLoop()
 {
   this->HandleEditBox(OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT);
 }


* In OnPaint call this->DrawEditBox(OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT) after making sure that the window is not shaded (this->IsShaded()).


* Make sure that OnKeyPress is implemented and make it call this->HandleEditBoxInput(..). The HandleEditBoxKey function has some interesting return values that are worth to check out. It will tell you if the enter/escape button was pressed or if no input was processed because the edit box was not in global focus.

 virtual EventState OnKeyPress(uint16 key, uint16 keycode)
 {
   EventState state = ES_NOT_HANDLED;
   this->HandleEditBoxKey(OP_WIDGET_NUM_PIZZAS_EDIT, key, keycode, state);
   return state;
 }

== Related articles ==

[[en/Archive/Source/OpenTTDDevBlackBook/Window/WidgetFocus|Understanding the widget focus system]]