[[Translation:en/Community/Junctionary/Junction Criteria]]
{{en/Community/Junctionary/Navigation}}
This is a list to clarify the usefulness of a junction. Every item is should be listed in all junctions as a pro or con.

==Attributes==

'''Sharp turns'''
* If the junction uses a sharp turn (example needed)

'''Cost (aprox)'''
* Approximate cost in dollars ($)

'''Construction difficulty'''
* Ease of memorizing
* How much time it will take

'''Theoretical simultaneous train count'''
* The number of trains that the junction can accommodate at one time without any stopping

'''Backup'''
* Backup is when trains are waiting to enter the junction

'''Deadlock''' (Gridlock or Jamming)
* Deadlock is when a train can NOT exit the junction therefor causing a backup

'''Elevation''' (Hills) 
* Trains go up or down hills while in the junction

'''Tunnels''' 
* Junction uses tunnels.

'''Bridges'''
* Junction uses bridges.

'''Natural Turns''' 
* Trains turn left for left.
* (opposite) Trains must turn right to turn left. This could lead (although very rare) to trains getting lost. (Can be fixed by using [[en/Manual/Waypoints]])

'''Split before merge'''
* Tracks split before they merge
** Leads to less backup

'''Train Length''' (max or min)
* Maximum or minimum length of a train

'''Area'''
* Width and Height represented as WxH

'''Direct'''
* A lane that goes straight threw without any turns
* (Opposite) Indirect path

'''Symmetrical'''
* In neither, one, or two axises

'''U-turn and Loops'''
* U-turns are fine as long as they do NOT loop around to them selves
* Roundabout is an exception due to its design style.

'''Signal type'''
* Original, Pre-Signal, or PBS.

'''Breakdowns'''
* How any one broken down train will effect the junction
* From total shutdown to blocking one lane.

[[Category:en/Manual/Train Junctions]]