[[Translation:en/Development/Script/Main Page]]
{{zh/注释|给玩家看的页面在这里: [[en/Manual/AI settings]]}}

{{zh/Development/脚本/导航菜单}}
欢迎进行 AI 开发。自版本0.7.0开始，任何玩家都可以创建自己的 AI。我们不只是提供一个简单易用的 API 供玩家使用，还支持使用脚本语言来开发属于你自己的 AI。这应该能让任何拥有一点编程知识的玩家都能创建出相当智能的AI。这也为玩家创建一个比 0.6 版本的 AI 提供了挑战。此页面内容主要就是向你展示如何去做到这一点。

对于所有页面，都蕴涵一个规则：所有给出的示例代码，均使用 Squirrel。 我们建议任何想要编写AI的人首先去翻阅一遍[[en/Development/Script/Introduction|介绍]]，那里会向你阐述基本概念。

== 教程 ==
* [[en/Development/Script/Introduction|Introduction to writing an AI for OpenTTD]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Basics|Basics of writing an AI]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Need To Know|Things you need to know about writing an AI]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Squirrel pitfalls|Common pitfalls when working with Squirrel]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Lists|Introduction to lists (TownList, TileList, ...)]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Last Error|Find out how to retrieve error messages after failed build commands]]
* [[en/Development/Script/Trams|Trams, and everything related]]

== API 文档 ==
* OpenTTD AI API Docs: https://docs.openttd.org/ai-api/
* [[en/Development/Script/Doxygen Documentation|Adding Doxygen documentation to your AI library]]

== AI ==
=== 示例 ===
* [[en/Development/Script/WrightAI|WrightAI]] - Builds plane routes only.
* [[en/Development/Script/TestAI|TestAI]] - A minimal main.nut and info.nut to base your AI from.

=== User AIs ===
To download user made AIs, please use the [[en/Archive/Community/Content Service|online content service]] or alternatively have a look at the [http://www.tt-forums.net/viewforum.php?f=65 NoAI forum].

=== AI对比 ===
* [[en/Community/AI/Comparison of AIs]]
* [[en/Community/AI/Test AIs|Test AIs]]

{{en/Feature|0.7}}

== 游戏脚本 ==
如果你想要从编写游戏脚本开始入门，这里有一篇专门介绍这个: [[en/Manual/Game script|游戏脚本]]